<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: monty python's flying circus. 

announcer: good evening. 

<scene it's wolfgang amadeus mozart>

<scene famous deaths>

mozart: hello again, and welcome to the show. tonight we continue to look at some famous deaths. tonight we start with the wonderful death of genghis khan, conqueror of india. take it away genghis. 

voice over: 9.1, 9.3, 9.7, that's 28.1 for genghis khan. 

mozart: bad luck genghis. nice to have you on the show. and now here are the scores. 

eddie: well there you can see the scores now. st stephen in the lead there with his stoning, then comes king richard the third at bosworth field, a grand death that, then the very lovely jean d'arc, then marat in his bath - best of friends with charlotte in the showers afterwards - then a. lincoln of the u.s of a, a grand little chap that, and number six genghis khan, and the back marker king edward the seventh. back to you, wolfgang. 

mozart: thank you, eddie. and now time for this week's request death. 

mozart: for mr and mrs violet stebbings of 23 wolverston road, hull, the death of mr bruce foster of guildford. 

foster: strewth! 

mozart: oh blimey, how time flies. sadly we are reaching the end of yet another programme and so it is finale time. we are proud to be bringing to you one of the evergreen bucket kickers. yes, the wonderful death of the famous english admiral nelson. 

<scene italian lesson>

none: cut to a night school teacher looking down out of classroom window. he crosses to a long wall blackboard with line of pigs drawn on near end. he crosses one off, walks along blackboard to other end which has written on it 'evening classes 7-8 p.m.'. he writes 'italian' below this and turns to camera. 

teacher: ah - good evening everyone, and welcome to the second of our italian language classes, in which we'll be helping you brush up your italian. last week we started at the beginning, and we learnt the italian for a 'spoon'. now, i wonder how many of you can remember what it was? 

teacher: not all at once ... sit down mario. giuseppe! 

giuseppe: il cucchiaio. 

teacher: well done giuseppe, or, as the italians would say: 'molto bene, giuseppe'. 

giuseppe: grazie signor ... grazie di tutta la sua gentilezza. 

teacher: well, now, this week we're going to learn some useful phrases to help us open a conversation with an italian. now first of all try telling him where you come from. for example, i would say: 'sono inglese di gerrard's cross', i am an englishman from gerrard's cross. shall we all try that together? 

all: sono inglese di gerrard's cross. 

teacher: not too bad, now let's try it with somebody else. er... mr... ? 

mariolini: mariolini. 

teacher: ah, mr mariolini, and where are you from? 

mariolini: napoli, signor. 

teacher: ah ... you're an italian. 

mariolini: si, si signor! 

teacher: well in that case you would say: 'sono italiano di napoli'. 

mariolini: ah, capisco, mile grazie signor... 

francesco: per favore, signor! 

teacher: yes? 

francesco: non conosgeve parliamente, signor devo me parlo sono italiano di napoli quando il habitare de milano. 

teacher: i'm sorry ... i don't understand! 

giuseppe: my friend say 'why must he say...' 

german: bitte mein herr. was ist das won für mittelschmerz? 

teacher: ah! helmut - you want the german classes. 

german: oh ja! danke schön. 

giuseppe: my friend he say, 'why must i say i am italian from napoli when he lives in milan?' 

teacher: ah, i... well, tell your friend ... if he lives in milan he must say 'sono italiano di milano...' 

francesco: eeeeeee! milano è tanto meglio di napoli. milano è la citta la più bella di tutti ... nel mondo... 

giuseppe: he say 'milan is better than napoli'. 

teacher: oh, he shouldn't be saying that, we haven't done comparatives yet. 

<scene whizzo butter>

none: at the end of this animation we have an advertisement for whizzo butter. 

voice over: yes, mothers, new improved whizzo butter containing 10% more or less is absolutely indistinguishable from a dead crab. remember, buy whizzo butter and go to heaven! 

first pepperpot: i can't tell the difference between whizzo butter and this dead crab. 

interviewer: yes, you know, we find that nine out of ten british housewives can't tell the difference between whizzo butter and a dead crab. 

pepperpots: it's true, we can't. no. 

second pepperpot: here. here! you're on television, aren't you? 

interviewer: yes, yes. 

second pepperpot: he does the thing with one of those silly women who can't tell whizzo butter from a dead crab. 

third pepperpot: you try that around here, young man, and we'll slit your face. 

<scene it's the arts>

none: caption: 'it's the arts' 

linkman: good evening and welcome to another edition of 'it's the arts'. and we kick off this evening with the cinema. 

second interviewer: good evening. one of the most prolific film directors of this age, or indeed of any age, is sir edward ross, back in his native country for the first time for five years to open a season of his works at the national film theatre, and we are very fortunate to have him with us in this studio this evening. 

ross: good evening. 

second interviewer: edward... you don't mind if i call you edward? 

ross: no, not at all. 

second interviewer: only it does worry some people - i don't know why...but they are a little sensitive so i take the precaution of asking on these occasions. 

ross: no, no, no that's fine. 

second interviewer: so edward's all right. splendid. splendid. i'm sorry to have brought it up, only eh... 

ross: no, no, please. edward it is. 

second interviewer: well thank you very much for being so helpful...only it's more than my job's worth to...er... 

ross: quite, yes. 

second interviewer: makes it rather difficult to establish a rapport ... to put the other person at his ease... 

ross: quite. 

second interviewer: yes, silly little point but it does seem to matter. still - less said the better. uh...ted...when you first started in...you don't mind if i call you ted? 

ross: no, no, no everyone calls me ted. 

second interviewer: well it's shorter, isn't it. 

ross: yes it is. 

second interviewer: yes, and much less formal! 

ross: yes, ted, edward, anything! 

second interviewer: splendid, splendid. incidentally, do call me tom, i don't want you playing around with any of this 'thomas' nonsense! ha ha ha ha! now where were we? ah yes. eddie-baby, when you first started in the... 

ross: i'm sorry, i'm sorry, but i don't like being called 'eddie-baby'. 

second interviewer: i'm sorry? 

ross: i don't like being called 'eddie-baby'. 

second interviewer: did i call you 'eddie-baby'? 

ross: yes, you did! now get on with it. 

second interviewer: i don't think i did call you eddie-baby. 

ross: you did call me eddie-baby. 

second interviewer: did i call him eddie-baby? 

voices: yes. no. yes. 

second interviewer: i didn't really call you eddie-baby, did i, sweetie? 

ross: don't call me sweetie!! 

second interviewer: can i call you sugar plum? 

ross: no! 

second interviewer: pussy cat? 

ross: no. 

second interviewer: angel-drawers? 

ross: no you may not! now get on with it! 

second interviewer: can i call you 'frank'? 

ross: why frank? 

second interviewer: it's a nice name. robin day's got a hedgehog called frank. 

ross: what is going on? 

second interviewer: frannie, little frannie, frannie knickers... 

ross: no. i'm leaving. i'm leaving. i'm off... 

second interviewer: tell us about your latest film, sir edward. 

ross: what? 

second interviewer: tell us about your latest film, if you'd be so very kind, sir edward. 

ross: none of this 'pussy cat' nonsense? 

second interviewer: promise. 

second interviewer: please, sir edward. 

ross: my latest film? 

second interviewer: yes, sir edward. 

ross: well the idea, funnily enough, came from an idea i had when i first joined the industry in 1919. of course, in those days i was only the tea boy. 

second interviewer: oh, 

second interviewer: shut 

second interviewer: up. 

linkman: sir edward...ross. now, later in the programme we will be bringing you a unique event in the world of modern art. pablo picasso will be doing a special painting for us, on this programme, live, on a bicycle. but right now it's time to look at a man whose meteoric rise to fame... 

<scene arthur 'two-sheds' jackson>

third interviewer: last week the royal festival hall saw the first performance of a new symphony by one of the world's leading modern composers, arthur 'two sheds' jackson. mr jackson. 

jackson: good evening. 

third interviewer: may i just sidetrack for one moment. mr. jackson, this, what shall i call it, nickname of yours. 

jackson: ah yes. 

third interviewer: 'two sheds'. how did you come by it? 

jackson: well, i don't use it myself, it's just a few of my friends call me 'two sheds'. 

third interviewer: i see, and do you in fact have two sheds? 

jackson: no. no, i've only one shed. i've had one for some time, but a few years ago i said i was thinking of getting another one, and since then some people have called me 'two sheds'. 

third interviewer: in spite of the fact that you only have one. 

jackson: yes. 

third interviewer: i see, and are you thinking of purchasing a second shed? 

jackson: no! 

third interviewer: to bring you in line with your epithet? 

jackson: no. 

third interviewer: i see, i see. well let's return to your symphony. ah, now then, did you write this symphony... 

third interviewer: in 

third interviewer: the shed? 

third interviewer: have you written any of your recent works in this shed of yours? 

jackson: no it's just a perfectly ordinary garden shed. 

third interviewer: i see. and you're thinking of buying this second shed to write in. 

jackson: no, no. look. this shed business, it doesn't really matter at all, the sheds aren't important. it's just a few friends call me two sheds and that's all there is to it. i wish you'd ask me about my music. i'm a composer. people always ask me about the sheds, they've got it out of proportion, i'm fed up with the shed, i wish i'd never got it in the first place. 

third interviewer: i expect you are probably thinking of selling one. 

jackson: i will sell one. 

third interviewer: then you'll be arthur 'no sheds' jackson? 

jackson: look, forget about the sheds. they don't matter. 

third interviewer: mr. jackson, i think, with respect, we ought to talk about your symphony. 

jackson: what? 

third interviewer: apparently your symphony was written for organ and tympani. 

jackson: what's that? 

third interviewer: what's what? 

jackson: it's a shed. get it off. 

jackson: right. 

third interviewer: now then mr. jackson...your symphony. 

none: caption: 'arthur "two sheds" jackson' 

third interviewer: i understand that you used to be interested in train-spotting. 

third interviewer: i understand that, about thirty years ago, you were extremely interested in train-spotting. 

jackson: what's that got to do with my bloody music? 

second interviewer: are you having any trouble from him? 

third interviewer: yes, a little. 

second interviewer: exactly. well we interviewers are more than a match for the likes of you, 'two sheds'. 

third interviewer: yes, make yourself scarce, 'two sheds'. this studio isn't big enough for the three of us! 

jackson: what are you doing? 

second interviewer: get your own arts programme, you fairy! 

third interviewer: arthur 'two sheds' jackson. 

third interviewer: never mind, timmy. 

second interviewer: oh, michael, you are such a comfort. 

linkman: arthur 'two sheds'... 

viking: ...jackson. 

<scene picasso/cycling race>

linkman: and now for more news of the momentous artistic event in which pablo picasso is doing a specially commissioned painting for us whilst riding a bicycle. pablo picasso - the founder of modern art - without doubt the greatest abstract painter ever... for the first time painting in motion. but first of all let's have a look at the route he'll be taking. 

baxter: well picasso will be starting, david, at chichester here, he'll then cycle on the a29 to fontwell, he'll then take the a272 which will bring him on to the a3 just north of hindhead here. from then on pablo has a straight run on the a3 until he meets the south circular at battersea here. well, this is a truly remarkable occasion as it is the first time that a modern artist of such stature has taken the a272, and it'll be very interesting to see how he copes with the heavy traffic round wisborough green. vicky. 

vicky: well picasso will be riding his viking super roadster with the drop handlebars and the dual-thread wheel-rims and with his wiley-prat 20-1 synchro-mesh he should experience difficulties on the sort of road surfaces they just don't get abroad. mitzie. 

linkman: and now for the latest report on picasso's progress over to reg moss on the guildford by-pass. 

reg moss: well there's no sign of picasso at the moment, david. but he should be through here at any moment. however i do have with me mr ron geppo, british cycling sprint champion and this year's winner of the derby-doncaster rally. 

geppo: well reg, i think pablo should be all right provided he doesn't attempt anything on the monumental scale of some of his earlier paintings, like guernica or mademoiselles d'avignon or even his later war and peace murals for the temple of peace chapel at vallauris, because with this strong head wind i don't think even doug timpson of manchester harriers could paint anything on that kind of scale. 

reg moss: well, thank you ron. well, there still seems to be no sign of picasso, so i'll hand you back to the studio. 

linkman: well, we've just heard that picasso is approaching the tolworth roundabout on the a3 so come in sam trench at tolworth. 

trench: well something certainly is happening here at tolworth roundabout, david. i can now see picasso, he's cycling down very hard towards the roundabout, he's about 75-50 yards away and i can now see his painting... it's an abstract... i can see some blue some purple and some little black oval shapes... i think i can see... 

pepperpot: that's not picasso - that's kandinsky. 

trench: piet mondrian - just behind, piet mondrian the neo-plasticist, and then a gap, then the main bunch, here they come, chagall, max ernst, miro, dufy, ben nicholson, jackson pollock and bernard buffet making a break on the outside here, brancusi's going with him, so is gericault, ferdinand leger, delaunay, de kooning, kokoschka's dropping back here by the look of it, and so's paul klee dropping back a bit and, right at the back of this group, our very own kurt schwitters.. 

pepperpot: he's german! 

trench: but as yet absolutely no sign of pablo picasso, and so from tolworth roundabout back to the studio. 

linkman: well i think i can help you there sam, we're getting reports in from the aa that picasso, picasso has fallen off...he's fallen off his bicycle on the b2127 just outside ewhurst, trying to get a short cut through to dorking via gomslake and peashall. well, picasso is reported to be unhurt, but the pig has a slight headache. and on that note we must say goodnight to you. picasso has failed in his first bid for international cycling fame. so from all of us here at the 'it's the arts' studio, it's goodnight. goodnight. 

none: animation: 

private: dobson's bought it, sir. 

officer: porker, eh? swine. 

<scene the funniest joke in the world>

voice over: this man is ernest scribbler... writer of jokes. in a few moments, he will have written the funniest joke in the world... and, as a consequence, he will die ... laughing. 

voice over: it was obvious that this joke was lethal... no one could read it and live ... 

commentator: this morning, shortly after eleven o'clock, comedy struck this little house in dibley road. sudden ...violent ... comedy. police have sealed off the area, and scotland yard's crack inspector is with me now. 

inspector: i shall enter the house and attempt to remove the joke. 

inspector: i shall be aided by the sound of sombre music, played on gramophone records, and also by the chanting of laments by the men of q division ... 

inspector: the atmosphere thus created should protect me in the eventuality of me reading the joke. 

commentator: there goes a brave man. whether he comes out alive or not, this will surely be remembered as one of the most courageous and gallant acts in police history. 

voice over: it was not long before the army became interested in the military potential of the killer joke. under top security, the joke was hurried to a meeting of allied commanders at the ministry of war. 

voice over: top brass were impressed. tests on salisbury plain confirmed the joke's devastating effectiveness at a range of up to fifty yards. 

colonel: all through the winter of '43 we had translators working, in joke-proof conditions, to try and produce a german version of the joke. they worked on one word each for greater safety. one of them saw two words of the joke and spent several weeks in hospital. but apart from that things went pretty quickly, and we soon had the joke by january, in a form which our troops couldn't understand but which the germans could. 

voice over: so, on july 8th, 1944, the joke was first told to the enemy in the ardennes... 

commanding nco: tell the ... joke. 

voice over: it was a fantastic success. over sixty thousand times as powerful as      britain's great pre-war joke ... 

voice over: ...and one which hitler just couldn't match. 

voice over: in action it was deadly. 

joke corporal: wenn ist das nunstruck git und slotermeyer? ja! .. beiherhund das oder die flipperwaldt gersput! 

voice over: the german casualties were appalling. 

nazi: vott is the big joke? 

officer: i can only give you name, rank, and why did the chicken cross the road? 

nazi: that's not funny! 

nazi: i vant to know the joke. 

officer: all right. how do you make a nazi cross? 

nazi: i don't know ... how do you make a nazi cross? 

officer: tread on his corns. 

nazi: gott in himmel! that's not funny! 

nazi: now if you don't tell me the joke, i shall hit you properly. 

officer: i can stand physical pain, you know. 

nazi: ah ... you're no fun. all right, otto. 

officer: oh no - anything but that please no, all right i'll tell you. 

nazi: quick otto. the typewriter. 

officer: wenn ist das nunstruck git und slotermeyer? ja! ... beiherhund das oder die flipperwaldt gersput. 

nazi: ach! zat iss not funny! 

voice over: but at peenemunde in the autumn of '44, the germans were working on a joke of their own. 

german joker: die ist ein kinnerhunder und zwei mackel über und der bitte schön ist den wunderhaus sprechensie. 'nein' sprecht der herren 'ist aufern borger mit zveitingen'. 

otto: we let you know. 

voice over: but by december their joke was ready, and hitler gave the order for the german v-joke to be broadcast in english. 

commentator: in 1945 peace broke out. it was the end of the joke. joke warfare was banned at a special session of the geneva convention, and in 1950 the last remaining copy of the joke was laid to rest here in the berkshire countryside, never to be told again. 

announcer: and here is the final score: pigs 9 - british bipeds 4. the pigs go on to meet vicki carr in the final. 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: monty python's flying circus. 

<scene flying sheep>

city gent: good afternoon. 

rustic: afternoon. 

city gent: a lovely day isn't it. 

rustic: eh, 'tis that. 

city gent: you here on holiday or...? 

rustic: nope, i live 'ere. 

city gent: oh, jolly good too. 

city gent: sheep aren't they? 

rustic: ar. 

city gent: yes, yes of course, i thought so...only...er why are they up in the trees? 

rustic: a fair question and one that in recent weeks has been much on my mind. it's my considered opinion that they're nesting. 

city gent: nesting? 

city gent: like birds? 

rustic: ar. exactly. birds is the key to the whole problem. it's my belief that these sheep are laborin' under the misapprehension that they're birds. observe their behavior. take for a start the sheeps' tendency to 'op about the field on their back legs. 

rustic: talk about the blind leading the blind. 

city gent: but why do they think they're birds? 

rustic: another fair question. one thing is for sure; a sheep is not a creature of the air. they have enormous difficulty in the comparatively simple act of perchin'. 

rustic: as you see. as for flight, its body is totally unadapted to the problems of aviation. trouble is, sheep are very dim. once they get an idea in their heads, there's no shifting it. 

city gent: but where did they get the idea from? 

rustic: from harold. he's that sheep there over under the elm. he's that most dangerous of animals, a clever sheep. he's the ring-leader. he has realized that a sheep's life consists of standing around for a few months and then being eaten. and that's a depressing prospect for an ambitious sheep. he's patently hit on the idea of escape. 

city gent: well why don't you just get rid of harold? 

rustic: because of the enormous commercial possibilities should he succeed. 

<scene french lecture on sheep-aircraft>

first frenchman: bonsoir - ici nous avons les diagrammes modernes d'un mouton anglo-français ... maintenant ... baa-aa, baa-aa... nous avons, dans la tête, le cabinc. ici, on se trouve le petit capitaine anglais, monsieur trubshawe. 

second frenchman: vive brian, wherever you are. 

first frenchman: d'accord, d'accord. maintenant, je vous présente mon collègue, le pouf célèbre, jean-brian zatapathique. 

second frenchman: maintenant, le mouton ... le landing ... les wheels, bon. 

first frenchman: bon, les wheels, ici. 

second frenchman: c'est formidable, n'est ce pas ... 

first frenchman: les voyageurs ... les bagages ... ils sont ... ici! 

first pepperpot: oh yes, we get a lot of french people round here. 

second pepperpot: ooh yes. 

third pepperpot: all over yes. 

interviewer: and how do you get on with these french people? 

first pepperpot: oh very well. 

fourth pepperpot: so do i. 

third pepperpot: me too. 

first pepperpot: oh yes i like them. i mean, they think well don't they? i mean, be fair - pascal. 

second pepperpot: blaise pascal. 

third pepperpot: jean-paul sartre. 

first pepperpot: yes, voltaire. 

second pepperpot: ooh! - rené descartes. 

announcer: and now for something completely different. a man with three buttocks! 

interviewer: good evening, i have with me, mr arthur frampton, who has...mr. frampton, i understand that you...er...as it were...have er...well, let me put it another way...i believe mr. frampton that whereas most people have - er - two...two...you...you 

frampton: i'm sorry. 

interviewer: ah yes, yes i see...um, are you quite comfortable? 

frampton: yes fine, thank you. 

interviewer: er, mr frampton... vis-à-vis...your...rump. 

frampton: i beg your pardon? 

interviewer: er, your rump. 

frampton: what? 

interviewer: your posterior....derriere...sit upon. 

frampton: what's that? 

interviewer: ...buttocks. 

frampton: oh, me bum! 

interviewer: sshhh! well mr. frampton i understand mr frampton, you have a... 50% bonus in the...in the region of what you said. 

frampton: i got three cheeks. 

interviewer: yes, yes, splendid, splendid. well...we were wondering, mr frampton, if you...could...see your way clear... 

frampton: here? what's that camera doing? 

interviewer: er, nothing, nothing at all, sir. we were wondering if you could see your way clear...to giving us...a quick... a quick... visual... mr frampton, will you take your trousers down? 

frampton: 'ere, get off! i'm not taking me trousers down on television. who do you think i am? 

interviewer: please take them down. 

frampton: no. 

interviewer: just a little bit. 

interviewer: no, er ahem... 

interviewer: now look here mr frampton... it's perfectly easy for somebody just to come along here to the bbc simply claiming... that they have a bit to spare in the botty department...but the point is mr. frampton... our viewers need proof. 

frampton: i've been on persian radio...get off! arthur figgis knows i've got three buttocks. 

interviewer: how? 

frampton: we go cycling together. 

announcer: and now for something completely different. a man with three buttocks. 

interviewer: good evening, i have with me, mr arthur frampton, who... mr. frampton - i understand that you, as it were...well, let me put it another way...i believe mr. frampton that whereas most people...didn't we do this just now? 

frampton: er...yes. 

interviewer: well why didn't you 

interviewer: say 

interviewer: so? 

frampton: i thought it was the continental version. 

<scene a man with two noses>

announcer: and now for something completely the same - a man with three buttocks. 

announcer: and now for something completely different. a man with three noses. 

off-screen voice: he's not here yet! 

announcer: two noses? 

<scene musical mice>

compère: ladies and gentlemen isn't she just great eh, wasn't she just great. ha, ha, ha, and she can run as fast as she can sing, ha, ha, ha. and i'm telling you - 'cos i know. no, only kidding. ha, ha, ha. seriously now, ladies and gentlemen, we have for you one of the most unique acts in the world today. he's...well i'll say no more, just let you see for yourselves...ladies and gentlemen, my very great priviledge to introduve arthur ewing, and his musical mice. 

ewing: thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. ladies and gentlemen. i have in this box twenty-three white mice. mice which have been painstakingly trained over the past few years, to squeak at a selected pitch. 

ewing: this is e sharp... and this one is g. you get the general idea. noe these mice are so arranged upon this rack, that when played in the correct order they will squeak 'the bells of st mary's'. ladies and gentlemen, i give you on the mouse organ 'the bells of st mary's'. thank you. 

<scene marriage guidance counsellor>

none: cut to a man holding up cards saying 'marriage counsellor'. the counsellor sits behind a desk. he puts down the card and says: 

counsellor: next! 

man: are you the marriage guidance counsellor? 

counsellor: yes. good morning 

man: good morning, sir 

counsellor: name? 

man: mr and mrs arthur pewtey, pewtey. 

counsellor: wait. don't tell me - it's something to do with moonlight - it goes with her eyes - it's soft and gentle, warm and yeilding, deeply lyrical and yet tender and frightened like a tiny whit rabbit 

man: it's deirdre 

counsellor: deirdre. what a beautiful name. what a beautiful, beautiful name 

counsellor: and what seems to be the trouble with your marriage mr pewtey? 

man: well, it all started about five years ago when we started going on holiday to brighton together. deirdre, that's my wife, has always been a jolly good companion to me and i never particularly anticipated any marital strife - indeed the very idea of consulting a professional marital adviser has always been of the greatest repugnance to me although far be it from me to impugn the nature of your trade or profession 

counsellor: do go on. 

man: well, as i say, we've always been good friends, sharing the interests, the gardening and so on, the model aeroplanes, the sixpenny bottle for the holiday money, and indeed twice a month settling down in the evenings doing the accounts, something which, er, deirdre, deirdre that's my wife, er, particularly looked forward to on account of her feet 

man: i should probably have said at the outset that i'm noted for having something of a sense of humour, although i have kept myself very much to myself over the last two years notwithstanding, as it were, and it's only as comparatively recently that i began to realize - well, er prehaps realize is not the correct word, er, imagine, imagine, that i was not the only thing in her life 

counsellor: you suspected your wife? 

man: well yes - at first, frankly yes 

man: her behaviour did seem at the time to me, who after all was there to see, to be a little odd. 

counsellor: odd? 

man: yes well, i mean to a certain extent yes. i'm not by nature a suspicious person - far from it - though in fact i have something of a reputation as an after-dinner speaker, if you take my meaning.... 

counsellor: yes i certainly do 

man: anyway in the area where i'm known people in fact know me extremely well.... 

counsellor: oh yes. would you hold this. 

man: certainly yes 

man: anyway, as i said, i decided to face up to the facts and stop beating about the bush or i'd never look myself in the bathroom mirror again. 

counsellor: er, look would you mind running along for ten minutes? make it half an hour. 

man: no, no, right-ho, fine. yes i'll wait outside shall i?... 

man: yes, well that's p'raps the best things. yes. you've certainly put my mind at rest on one or two points, there. 

southener: now wait there stranger. a man can run and run for year after year until he realizes      that what he's running from...is hisself 

man: gosh. 

southener: a man's got to do what a man's got to do, and there ain't no sense in runnin'. now      you gotta turn, and you gotta fight, and you gotta hold your head up high. 

man: yes! 

southener: now you go back in there my son and be a man. walk tall. 

man: yes, i will. i will. i've been pushed around long enough. this is it. this is your monent arthur pewtey - this is it arthur pewtey. at last you're a man! 

man: all right, dierdre, come out of there 

counsellor: go away 

man: right. right. 

voice over: so much for pathos. 

<scene the wacky queen>

voice over: these historic pictures of queen victoria, taken in 1880 at osborne show the queen with gladstone. this unique film provides a rare glimpse into the private world of a woman who ruled half the earth. the commentary, recorded on the earliest wax cylinders, is spoken by alfred lord tennyson, the poet laureate. 

voice over: well hello, it's the wacky queen again! 

voice over: well, that's one way to get the housework done! 

<scene working-class playwright>

none: cut to sitting room straight out of d. h. lawrence. mum, wiping her hand on her apron is ushering in a young man in a suit. they are a northern couple. 

mum: oh dad... look who's come to see us... it's our ken. 

dad: aye, and about bloody time if you ask me. 

ken: aren't you pleased to see me, father? 

mum: of course he's pleased to see you, ken, he... 

dad: all right, woman, all right i've got a tongue in my head - i'll do 'talkin'. 

dad: aye ... i like yer fancy suit. is that what they're wearing up in yorkshire now? 

ken: it's just an ordinary suit, father... it's all i've got apart from the overalls. 

mum: how are you liking it down the mine, ken? 

ken: oh it's not too bad, mum... we're using some new tungsten carbide drills for the      preliminary coal-face scouring operations. 

mum: oh that sounds nice, dear... 

dad: tungsten carbide drills! what the bloody hell's tungsten carbide drills? 

ken: it's something they use in coal-mining, father. 

dad: 'it's something they use in coal-mining, father'. you're all bloody fancy talk since you left london. 

ken: oh not that again. 

mum: he's had a hard day dear... his new play opens at the national theatre tomorrow. 

ken: oh that's good. 

dad: good! 

dad: good? 

dad: what do you know about it? what do you know about getting up at five      o'clock in t'morning to fly to paris... back at the old vic for drinks at twelve, sweating the day      through press interviews, television interviews and getting back here at ten to wrestle with the      problem of a homosexual nymphomaniac drug-addict involved in the ritual murder of a well      known scottish footballer. that's a full working day, lad, and don't you forget it! 

mum: oh, don't shout at the boy, father. 

dad: aye, 'ampstead wasn't good enough for you, was it? ... you had to go poncing off to      barnsley, you and yer coal-mining friends. 

ken: coal-mining is a wonderful thing father, but it's something you'll never understand. just      look at you! 

mum: oh ken! be careful! you know what he's like after a few novels. 

dad: oh come on lad! come on, out wi' it! what's wrong wi' me?... yet 

dad: tit 

dad: ! 

ken: i'll tell you what's wrong with you. your head's addled with novels and poems, you come      home every evening reeling of chateau la tour... 

mum: oh don't, don't. 

ken: and look what you've done to mother! she's worn out with meeting film stars, attending      premieres and giving gala luncheons... 

dad: there's nowt wrong wi' gala luncheons, lad! i've had more gala luncheons than you've      had hot dinners! 

mum: oh please! 

dad: aaaaaaagh! 

mum: oh no! 

ken: what is it? 

mum: oh, it's his writer's cramp! 

ken: you never told me about this... 

mum: no, we didn't like to, kenny. 

dad: i'm all right! i'm all right, woman. just get him out of here. 

mum: oh ken! you'd better go ... 

ken: all right. i'm going. 

dad: after all we've done for him... 

ken: one day you'll realize there's more to life than culture... there's dirt, and smoke, and good honest sweat! 

dad: get out! get out! get out! you ... labourer! 

dad: hey, you know, mother, i think there's a play there .... get t'agent on t'phone. 

mum: aye i think you're right, frank, it could express, it could express a vital theme of our      age... 

dad: aye. 

man: oh shut up! 

man: and now for something completely different ... a man with three buttocks... 

mum and dad: we've done that! 

man: oh all right. all right! a man with nine legs. 

voice off: he ran away. 

<scene a scotsman on a horse>

man: oh... bloody hell! er ... a scotsman on a horse! 

voice over: harold! come back, harold! harold! come back, harold! oh, blast! 

<scene the wrestling epilogue>

interviewer: good evening, and welcome once again to the epilogue. on the programme this evening we have monsignor edward gay, visiting pastoral emissary of the somerset theological college and author of a number of books about belief, the most recent of which is the best seller 'my god'. and opposite him we have dr tom jack: humanist, broadcaster, lecturer and author of the book 'hello sailor'. tonight, instead of discussing the existence or non-existence of god, they have decided to fight for it. the existence, or non-existence, to be determined by two falls, two submissions, or a knockout. all right boys, let's get to it. your master of ceremonies for this evening - mr arthur waring. 

mc: good evening ladies and gentlemen and welcome to a three-round contest of the epilogue. introducing on my right in the blue corner, appearing for jehovah - the ever popular monsignor eddie gay. 

none: caption: 'round 1' 

interviewer: now dr jack's got a flying mare there. a flying mare there, and this is going to be a full body slam. a full body slam, and he's laying it in there, and he's standing back. well .. there we are leaving the epilogue for the moment, we'll be bringing you the result of this discussion later on in the programme. 

interviewer: oh my god! 

none: animation: 

<scene the mouse problem>

linkman: yes. the mouse problem. this week 'the world around us' looks at the growing social phenomenon of mice and men. what makes a man want to be a mouse. 

man: well it's not a question of wanting to be a mouse... it just sort of happens to you. all of a sudden you realize... that's what you want to be. 

interviewer: and when did you first notice these... shall we say... tendencies? 

man: well... i was about seventeen and some mates and me went to a party, and, er...      we had quite a lot to drink... and then some of the fellows there ... started handing ... cheese      around ... and well just out of curiosity i tried a bit ... and well that was that. 

interviewer: and what else did these fellows do? 

man: well some of them started dressing up as mice a bit ... and then when they'd got      the costumes on they started ... squeaking. 

interviewer: yes. and was that all? 

man: that was all. 

interviewer: and what was your reaction to this? 

man: well i was shocked. but, er... gradually i came to feel that i was more at ease ... with other mice. 

linkman: a typical case, whom we shall refer to as mr a, although his real name is this: 

linkman: what is it that attracts someone like mr. a to this way of life? i have with me a consultant psychiatrist. 

kargol: well, we've just heard a typical case history. i myself have over seven hundred similar histories, all fully documented. would you care to choose one? 

kargol: mr arthur aldridge of leamington. 

linkman: well, that's amazing, amazing. thank you, janet. 

linkman: kargol, speaking as a psychiatrist as opposed to a conjuror... 

kargol: oh... 

linkman: ...what makes certain men want to be mice? 

kargol: well, we psychiatrist have found that over 8% of the population will always be mice, i mean, after all, there's something of the mouse in all of us. i mean, how many of us can honestly say that at one time or another he hasn't felt sexually attracted to mice. 

kargol: the only way to bring the crime figures down is to reduce the number of offences - get it out in the open - i know i have. 

linkman: the amazing kargol and janet.  what a lot of people don't realize is that a mouse, once accepted, can fulfil a very useful role in society. indeed there are examples throughout history of famous men now known to have been mice. 

linkman: and, of course, hillaire belloc. but what is the attitude... 

viking: ... of the man in the street towards... 

linkman: ... this growing social problem? 

window cleaner: clamp down on them. 

off-screen voice: how? 

window cleaner: i'd strangle them. 

stockbroker: well speaking as a member of the stock exchange i would suck their brains out with a straw, sell the widows and orphans and go into south american zinc. 

man: yeh i'd, er, stuff sparrows down their throats, er, until the beaks stuck out through the, er, stomach walls. 

accountant: oh well i'm a chartered accountant, and consequently too boring to be of interest. 

vicar: i feel that these poor unfortunate people should be free to live the lives of their own choice. 

porter: i'd split their nostrils open with a boat hook, i think. 

man: well i mean, they can't help it, can they? but, er, there's nothing you can do about it. so er, i'd kill 'em. 

linkman: clearly the british public's view is a hostile one. 

linkman: but perhaps this is because so little is generally known of these mice men. we have      some film now taken of one of the notorious weekend mouse parties, where these disgusting      little perverts meet. 

linkman's voice: mr a tells us what actually goes on at these mouse parties. 

mr a: well first of all you get shown to your own private hole in the skirting board... then you      put the mouse skin on... then you scurry into the main room, and perhaps take a run in the      wheel. 

linkman: the remainder of this film was taken secretly at one of these mouse parties by a      bbc cameraman posing as a vole. as usual we apologize for the poor quality of the film. 

mr a's voice: well, er, then you steal some cheese, brie or camembert, or cheddar or      gouda, if you're on the harder stuff. you might go and see one of the blue cheese films...      there's a big clock in the middle of the room, and about 12:50 you climb up it and then      ...eventually, it strikes one... and you all run down. 

linkman's voice: and what's that? 

mr a's voice: that's the farmer's wife. 

linkman: perhaps we need to know more of these mice men before we can really judge      them. perhaps not. anyway, our thirty minutes are up. 

linkman: goodnight. 

none: caption: 'sex and violence' was concieved, written and performed by:... (credits)' 

voice over: and here is the result of the epilogue: god exists by two falls to a submission 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: monty python's flying circus. 

none: animation: 

voice over: 'episode 12b' 

voice over: 'how to recognise different trees from quite a long way away' 

voice over: 'no. 1' 

voice over: 'the larch' 

voice over: the larch. the larch. 

<scene court scene (witness in coffin/cardinal richelieu)>

judge: mr larch, you heard the case for the prosecution. is there anything you wish to say before i pass sentence? 

prisoner: well... i'd just like to say, m'lud, i've got a family... a wife and six kids... and i hope very much you don't have to take away my freedom... because... well, because m'lud freedom is a state much prized within the realm of civilized society. 

prisoner: it is a bond wherewith the savage man may charm the outward hatchments of his soul, and soothe the troubled breast into a magnitude of quiet. it is most precious as a blessed balm, the saviour of princes, the harbinger of happiness, yea, the very stuff and pith of all we hold most dear. what frees the prisoner in his lonely cell, chained within the bondage of rude walls, far from the owl of thebes? what fires and stirs the woodcock in his springe or wakes the drowsy apricot betides? what goddess doth the storm toss'd mariner offer her most tempestuous prayers to? freedom! freedom! freedom! 

judge: it's only a bloody parking offence. 

counsel: i'm sorry i'm late m'lud i couldn't find a kosher car park. er... don't bother to recap m'lud, i'll pick it up as we go along. call mrs fiona lewis. 

pepperpot: i swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so anyway, i said to her, i said, they can't afford that on what he earns, i mean for a start the feathers get up your nose, i ask you, four and six a pound, and him with a wooden leg, i don't know how she puts up with it after all the trouble she's had with her you-know-what, anyway it was a white wedding much to everyone's surprise, of course they bought everything on the hire purchase, i think they ought to send them back where they came from, i mean you've got to be cruel to be kind so mrs harris said, so she said, she said, she said, the dead crab she said, she said. well, her sister's gone to rhodesia what with her womb and all, and her youngest, her youngest as thin as a filing cabinet, and the goldfish, the goldfish they've got whooping cough they keep spitting water all over their bratbys, well, they do don't they, i mean you can't, can you, i mean they're not even married or anything, they're not even divorced, and he's in the kgb if you ask me, he says he's a tree surgeon but i don't like the sound of his liver, all that squeaking and banging every night till the small hours, his mother's been much better since she had her head off, yes she has, i said, don't you talk to me about bladders, i said... 

judge: mr bartlett, i fail to see the relevance of your last witness. 

counsel: my next witness will explain that if m'ludship will allow. i call the late arthur aldridge. 

clerk of the court: the late arthur aidridge. 

judge: the late arthur aldridge? 

counsel: yes m'lud. 

judge: mr bartlett, do you think there is any relevance in questioning the deceased? 

counsel: i beg your pardon m'lud. 

judge: well, i mean, your witness is dead. 

counsel: yes, m'lud. er, well, er, virtually, m'lud. 

judge: he's not completely dead? 

counsel: no he's not completely dead m'lud. no. but he's not at all well. 

judge: but if he's not dead, what's he doing in a coffin? 

counsel: oh, it's purely a precaution m'lud - if i may continue? mr aldridge, you were a... you are a stockbroker of 10 savundra close, wimbledon. 

counsel: mr aldridge... 

judge: what was that knock? 

counsel: it means 'yes' m'lud. one knock for 'yes', and two knocks for 'no'. if i may continue? mr aldridge, would it be fair to say that you are not at all well? 

counsel: ah ha! 

judge: where is all this leading us? 

counsel: that will become apparent in one moment m'lud. 

counsel: no further questions m'lud. 

judge: what do you mean, no further questions? you can't just dump a dead body in my court and say 'no further questions'. i demand an explanation. 

counsel: there are no easy answers in this case m'lud. 

judge: i think you haven't got the slightest idea what this case is about. 

counsel: m'lud the strange, damnable, almost diabolic threads of this extraordinary tangled web of intrigue will shortly m'lud reveal a plot so fiendish, so infernal, so heinous ... 

judge: mr bartlett, your client has already pleaded guilty to the parking offence. 

counsel: parking offence, schmarking offence, m'lud. we must leave no stone unturned. call cardinal richelieu. 

judge: oh, you're just trying to string this case out. cardinal richelieu? 

counsel: a character witness m'lud. 

cardinal: 'allo everyone, it's wonderful to be 'ere y'know, i just love your country. london is so beautiful at this time of year. 

counsel: er, you are cardinal armand du piessis de richelieu, first minister of louis xiii? 

cardinal: oui. 

counsel: cardinal, would it be fair to say that you not only built up the centralized monarchy in france but also perpetuated the religious schism in europe? 

cardinal: that's what they say. 

counsel: did you persecute the huguenots? 

counsel: and did you take even sterner measures against the great catholic nobles who made common cause with foreign foes in defence of their feudal independence? 

cardinal: i sure did that thing. 

counsel: cardinal. are you acquainted with the defendant, harold larch? 

cardinal: since i was so high 

cardinal: . 

counsel: speaking as a cardinal of the roman catholic church, as first minister of louis xiii, and as one of the architects of the modern world already - would you say that harold larch was a man of good character? 

cardinal: listen. harry is a very wonderful human being. 

counsel: m'lud. in view of the impeccable nature of this character witness may i plead for clemency. 

judge: oh but it's only thirty shillings. 

dim: not so fast! 

prisoner: why not? 

dim: none of your smart answers ... you think you're so clever. well, i'm dim. 

dim: yes, and i've a few questions i'd like to ask cardinal so-called richelieu. 

cardinal: bonjour monsieur dim. 

dim: so-called cardinal, i put it to you that you died in december 1642. 

cardinal: that is correct. 

dim: ah ha! he fell for my little trap. 

cardinal: curse you inspector dim. you are too clever for us naughty people. 

dim: and furthermore i suggest that you are none other than ron higgins, professional cardinal richelieu impersonator. 

cardinal: it's a fair cop. 

counsel: my you're clever dim. he'd certainly taken me in. 

dim: it's all in a day's work. 

judge: with a brilliant mind like yours, dim, you could be something other than a policeman. 

dim: yes. 

judge: what? 

voice over: 'no. 1' 

voice over: 'the larch' 

voice over: the larch. the larch. 

voice over: 'and now...no. 1...the larch...and now...' 

<scene bicycle repair man>

commentator: this man is no ordinary man. this is mr. f. g. superman. to all appearances, he looks like any other law-abiding citizen. 

commentator: but mr f. g. superman has a secret identity...when trouble strikes at any time...at any place...he is ready to become... bicycle repair man! 

bicycle repair man: hmmmmm. thinks - this sounds like a job for... bicycle repair man...but how to change without revealing my secret identity? 

first superman: if only bicycle repair man were here! 

f. g. superman: yes. wait! i think i know where i can find him - look over 

f. g. superman: there 

f. g. superman: ! 

first superman: oh look - is it a stockbroker? 

second superman: is it a quantity surveyor? 

third superman: is it a church warden? 

all: no! it's bicycle repair man! 

superman: my! bicycle repair man! thank goodness you've come! 

superman: look! 

second superman: why! he's mending it with his own hands! 

first superman: see! how he uses a spanner to tighten that nut! 

superman: oh...oh! bicycle repair man! how can i ever repay you? 

bicycle repair man: oh, you don't need to guv, it's all right, it's all in a days work for... bicycle repair man! 

supermen: our hero! 

commentator: yes! whenever bicycles are broken, or menaced by international communism, bicycle repair man is ready! 

commentator: ready to smash the communists, wipe them up, and shove them off the face of the earth... 

commentator: kill! kill! kill! the filthy bastard commies, i hate 'em! i hate 'em! aaargh! aaargh! 

commentator: coming dear! 

<scene children's stories>

none: animation: 

storyteller: !? 

none: animation: 

compère: hello again, now here's a little sketch by two boys from london town. they've been writing for three years and they've called this little number - here it is, it's called - restaurant sketch. 

lady: it's nice here, isn't it? 

man: oh, very good restaurant, three stars you know. 

lady: really? 

man: mmm... 

waiter: good evening, sir! good evening, madam! and may i say what a pleasure it is to see you here again, sir! 

man: oh thank you. well there you are dear. have a look there, anything you like. the boeuf en croute is fantastic. 

waiter: oh if i may suggest, sir ... the pheasant à la reine, the sauce is one of the chefs most famous creations. 

man: em... that sounds good. anyway just have a look... take your time. oh, er by the way - got a bit of a dirty fork, could you ... er.. get me another one? 

waiter: i beg your pardon. 

man: oh it's nothing ... er, i've got a fork a little bit dirty. could you get me another one? thank you. 

waiter: oh ... sir, i do apologize. 

man: oh, no need to apologize, it doesn't worry me. 

waiter: oh no, no, no, i do apologize. i will fetch the head waiter immediatement. 

man: oh, there's no need to do that! 

waiter: oh, no no... i'm sure the head waiter, he will want to apologize to you himself. i will fetch him at once. 

lady: well, you certainly get good service here. 

man: they really look after you... yes. 

head waiter: excuse me monsieur and madame. 

head waiter: it's filthy, gaston ... find out who washed this up, and give them their cards immediately. 

man: oh, no, no. 

head waiter: better still, we can't afford to take any chances, sack the entire washing-up staff. 

man: no, look i don't want to make any trouble. 

head waiter: oh, no please, no trouble. it's quite right that you should point these kind of things out. gaston, tell the manager what has happened immediately! 

man: oh, no i don't want to cause any fuss. 

head waiter: please, it's no fuss. i quite simply wish to ensure that nothing interferes with your complete enjoyment of the meal. 

man: oh i'm sure it won't, it was only a dirty fork. 

head waiter: i know. and i'm sorry, bitterly sorry, but i know that... no apologies i can make can alter the fact that in our restaurant you have been given a dirty, filthy, smelly piece of cutlery... 

man: it wasn't smelly. 

head waiter: it was smelly, and obscene and disgusting and i hate it, i hate it ,.. nasty, grubby, dirty, mingy, scrubby little fork. oh ... oh . . . oh . . . 

manager: good evening, sir, good evening, madam. i am the manager. i've only just heard . .. may i sit down? 

man: yes, of course. 

manager: i want to apologize, humbly, deeply, and sincerely about the fork. 

man: oh please, it's only a tiny bit... i couldn't see it. 

manager: ah you're good kind fine people, for saying that, but i can see it.., to me it's like a mountain, a vast bowl of pus. 

man: it's not as bad as that. 

manager: it gets me 

manager: here 

manager: things aren't going very well back there. the poor cook's son has been put away again, and poor old mrs dalrymple who does the washing up can hardly move her poor fingers, and then there's gilberto's war wound - but they're good people, and they're kind people, and together we were beginning to get over this dark patch ... there was light at the end of the tunnel . .. now this . .. now this... 

man: can i get you some water? 

manager: it's the end of the road!! 

head waiter: easy, mungo, easy... mungo... 

head waiter: the war wound!... the wound... the wound... 

manager: this is the end! the end! aaargh!! 

cook: they've destroyed him! he's dead!! they killed him!!! 

none: caption: 'and now the punch-line' 

man: lucky we didn't say anything about the dirty knife. 

compère: well, there we are then, that was the restaurant sketch, a nice little number...a bit vicious in parts, but a lot of fun...but how about that punch line, eh?...oh, you know what i mean - oh...oh...really. 

<scene seduced milkmen>

none: a cartoon advertising 'interesting lives' leads to film of milkman (michael) delivering milk to a suburban house. as he puts the milk down, the front door opens and a seductively dressed young lady (carol) beckons him inside. glancing round furtively he follows her into the house and up the stairs. she leads him to the bedroom door, opens it, and ushers him inside, closing the door behind him. inside, he is bewildered to see several elderly milkmen, who have obviously been there for a very long time. 

<scene stolen newsreader>

none: cut to bbc news studio, where the newsreader is just putting the phone dovn. at his desk is an old-fashioned microphone with 'bbc' on it. he is in evening dress, and speaks in beautifully modulated tones. 

newsreader: good evening, here is the 6 o'clock news read by michael queen. it's been a quite day over most of the country as people went back to work after the warmest july weekend for nearly a year. the only high spot of the weekend was the meeting between officials of the nedc and the odcn in bradford today. 

newsreader: in geneva, officials of the central clearing banks met with herr voleschtadt of poland to discuss non-returnable loans on a twelve-year trust basis for the construction of a new zinc-treating works in the omsk area of krakow, near the bulestan border. the board of trade has ratified a trade agreement with the soviet union for the sale of 600 low gear electric sewing machines. the president of the board of trade said he hoped this would mark a new area of expansion in world trade and a new spirit of co-operation between east and west. there has been a substantial drop in gold reserves during the last twelve months. this follows a statement by the treasury to the effect that the balance of imports situation had not changed dramatically over the same period. 

newsreader: in the match between glamorgan and yorkshire, the yorkshire bowler nicholson took eight wickets for three runs. glareorgan were all out for the thirty-six and therefore won the match by an innings and seven runs. weather for tomorrow will be cloudy with occasional outbreaks of rain. and that is the end of the news. 

voice over: 'and now' 

voice over: 'no. 1' 

voice over: 'the larch' 

voice over: the larch 

voice over: 'no. 3' 

voice over: 'and now...' 

voice over: the horse chestnut. 

<scene children's interview>

interviewer: eric ... do you think you could recognize a larch tree? 

eric: don't know. 

interviewer: what's your name? 

michael: michael. 

interviewer: michael, do you think you know what a larch tree looks like? 

michael: i want to go home. 

terry: bottom! 

interviewer: are there any other trees that any of you think you could recognize from quite a long way away? 

terry: i ... want... to see a sketch of eric's please... 

interviewer: what? 

terry: i want to see a sketch of eric's. nudge nudge. 

interviewer: a sketch? 

terry: eric's written... 

eric: i written a sketch. 

michael: nudge nudge, eric's written ... 

eric: nudge nudge...nudge...nudge. 

<scene nudge nudge>

none: two men in a pub 

norman: is your wife a...goer...eh? know what i mean? know what i mean? nudge nudge. nudge nudge. know what i mean? say no more...know what i mean? 

him: i beg your pardon? 

norman: your wife...does she, er, does she 'go' - eh? eh? eh? know what i mean, know what i mean? nudge nudge. say no more. 

him: well, she sometimes goes, yes. 

norman: i bet she does. i bet she does. i bet she does. know what i mean? nudge nudge. 

him: i'm sorry, i don't quite follow you. 

norman: follow me. 

norman: follow me. 

him: are you trying to sell something? 

norman: selling, selling. very good. 

norman: very 

him: but... 

norman: your wife is she, eh... is she a sport. eh? 

him: she 

him: likes 

him: sport, yes! 

norman: i bet she does, i bet she does! 

him: she is very fond of cricket, as a matter of fact. 

norman: who isn't, eh? know what i mean. likes games, likes games. knew she would. knew she would. knew she would. likes games, eh? she's been around, eh? been around? 

him: she's traveled. she's from purley. 

norman: oh...oh. say no more, say no more. say no more - 

norman: purley 

norman: , say no more. purley, eh? know what i mean, know what i mean. say no more. 

norman: photographs, eh? know what i mean? photographs, 'he asked him knowingly'. 

him: photography? 

norman: yes. nudge nudge. snap snap. grin grin, wink wink, say no more? 

him: holiday snaps? 

norman: could be, could be taken on holiday. could be yes - swimming costumes. know what i mean. candid photography. know what i mean, nudge nudge. 

him: no, no we don't have a camera. 

norman: oh. still 

norman: woah! eh? wo-oah! eh? 

him: look, are you insinuating something? 

norman: oh...no...no... yes. 

him: well? 

norman: well. i mean. er, i mean. you're a man of the world, aren't you...i mean, er, you've er... you've been there haven't you...i mean you've been around...eh? 

him: what do you mean? 

norman: well i mean like you've er...you've done it...i mean like, you know...you've...er...you've slept...with a lady. 

him: yes. 

norman: what's it like? 

voice over: the larch. 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 'monty python's flying circus' 

none: caption: 'episode arthur' 

none: caption: 'part 7' 

none: caption: 'teeth' 

<scene song ('and did those feet')>

singer: and did those teeth in ancient time... 

singer: ... walk upon england's mountains green. 

singer: good evening and welcome ladies and gentlemen. at this time we'd like to up the tempo a little, change the mood. we've got a number requested by pip, pauline, nigel, tarquin, and old spotty - tarquin's mother - a little number specially written for the pubescence of ex-king zog of albania, and it's entitled 'art gallery'. hope you like it. 

<scene art gallery>

janet: 'allo, marge! 

marge: oh hello, janet, how are you love? 

janet: fancy seeing you! how's little ralph? 

marge: oh, don't ask me! he's been nothing but trouble all morning. stop it ralph! 

marge: stop it! 

janet: same as my kevin. 

marge: really? 

janet: nothing but trouble ... leave it alone! he's just been in the florentine room and smeared tomato ketchup all over raphael's baby jesus. 

janet: put that baroque masterpiece down! 

marge: well, we've just come from the courtauld and ralph smashed every exhibit but one in the danish contemporary sculpture exhibition. 

janet: just like my kevin. show him an exhibition of early eighteenth-century dresden pottery and he goes berserk. no, i said no, and i meant no! 

janet: this morning we were viewing the early flemish masters of the renaissance and mannerist schools, when he gets out his black aerosol and squirts vermeer's lady at a window! 

marge: still it's not as bad as spitting is it? 

janet: that if he spits at a painting i'll never take him to an exhibition again. 

marge: ralph used to spit - he could hit a van gogh at thirty yards. but he knows now it's wrong - don't you ralph? 

marge: oh, look at that! the fighting temeraire - ruined! what shall i do? 

janet: now don't do a thing with it love, just put it in the bin over there. 

janet: yes take my word for it, marge. kevin's eaten most of the early nineteenth-century british landscape artists, and i've learned not to worry. as a matter of fact, i feel a bit peckish myself. 

janet: yes... 

marge: i never used to like turner. 

janet: no ... i don't know much about art, but i know what i like. 

<scene art critic>

critic: urgh! i've got vermeer all down my shirt... 

wife: watteau, dear? 

critic: what a terrible joke. 

wife: but it's my only line. 

critic: all right! all right! but you didn't have to say it! you could have kept quiet for a change! 

critic: oh, that's typical. talk talk talk. natter natter natter! 

singer: bring me my arrows of desire ... bring me my spear oh clouds unfold ... bring me my chariot of fire. 

<scene it's a man's life in the modern army>

colonel: right, cut to me. as officer commanding the regular army's advertising division, i object, in the strongest possible terms to this obvious reference to our own slogan 'it's a dog's life... 

man: this is my only line. 

man: well, it's my only line. 

<scene undressing in public>

colonel: quiet. quiet. now wait a minute. i have already warned this programme about infringing the army copyright of our slogan 'it's a pig's life... 

colonel: man's 

colonel: life in the modern army'. and i'm warning you if it happens again, i shall come down on this programme like a ton of bricks... right. carry on sergeant major. 

<scene self-defence>

rsm: sir! good evening, class. 

all: good evening. 

rsm: where's all the others, then? 

all: they're not here. 

rsm: i can see that. what's the matter with them? 

all: don't know. 

first man: perhaps they've got flu. 

rsm: flu...flu? they should eat more fresh fruit. 

rsm: right. now, self-defence. tonight i shall be carrying on from where we got to last week when i was showing you how to defend yourselves against anyone who attacks you with armed with a piece of fresh fruit. 

second man: you promised you wouldn't do fruit this week. 

rsm: what do you mean? 

third man: we've done fruit the last nine weeks. 

rsm: what's wrong with fruit? you think you know it all, eh? 

second man: but couldn't we do something else, for a change? 

fourth man: like someone who attacks you with a pointed stick? 

all: we've done the passion fruit. 

rsm: what? 

first man: we've done the passion fruit. 

second man: we done oranges, apples, grapefruits. 

third man: whole and segments. 

second man: pomegranates, greengages. 

first man: grapes, passion fruit. 

second man: lemons. 

third man: plums. 

first man: yes, and mangoes in syrup. 

rsm: how about cherries? 

all: we done them. 

rsm: red 

rsm: and 

rsm: black? 

all: yes. 

rsm: all right then...bananas! 

all: oh. 

rsm: we haven't done them, have we? 

all: no. 

rsm: right! bananas! how to defend yourself against a man armed with a banana. 

rsm: now, it's quite simple to defend yourself against the banana fiend. first of all, you force him to drop the banana, next, you eat the banana, thus disarming him. you have now rendered him helpless. 

second man: suppose he's got a bunch. 

rsm: shut up! 

fourth man: supposing he's got a pointed stick. 

rsm: shut up. right now you, mr apricot. 

first man: harrison. 

rsm: harrison, mr. harrison. come at me with that banana then. come on attack me with it. as hard as you like. come on. 

rsm: now...i eat the banana. 

rsm: i have now eaten the banana. the deceased mr apricot is now disarmed. 

second man: you shot him. you shot him dead. 

rsm: well, he was attacking me with a banana. 

third man: well, you told him to. 

rsm: look, i'm only doing me job. i have to show you how to defend yourselves against fresh fruit. 

fourth man: and pointed sticks. 

rsm: shut up. 

second man: supposing someone came at you with a banana and you haven't got a gun? 

rsm: run for it. 

third man: you could stand and scream for help. 

rsm: you try that with a pineapple down your windpipe. 

third man: a pineapple? 

rsm: where? where? 

third man: nowhere. i was just saying pineapple. 

rsm: oh blimey. i thought my number was on that one. 

third man: what, on the pineapple? 

third man: no i was just repeating it. 

rsm: oh. oh. right. that's the banana then. next... the raspberry. 

rsm: harmless looking thing, isn't it? now you, mr tinned peach... 

third man: thompson. 

rsm: mr thompson, come at me with that raspberry then. come on, be as vicious as you like with it. 

third man: no. 

rsm: why not? 

third man: you'll shoot me. 

rsm: i won't. 

third man: you shot mr. harrison. 

rsm: that was self-defence. come on. i promise i won't shoot you. 

fourth man: you promised you'd tell us about pointed sticks. 

rsm: shut up. now. brandish that...brandish that raspberry. come on, be as vicious as you like with it. come on. 

third man: no. throw the gun away. 

rsm: i haven't got a gun. 

third man: oh yes, you have. 

rsm: i haven't. 

third man: you have. you shot mr harrison with it. 

rsm: oh... 

rsm: that 

rsm: gun. 

third man: throw it away. 

rsm: all right. 

rsm: how to defend yourself against a raspberry, without a gun. 

third man: you were going to shoot me! 

rsm: i wasn't. 

third man: you were. 

rsm: wasn't. come on, come on you worm...you miserable little man. come at me then...come on, do your worst, you worm. 

rsm: if anyone ever attacks you with a raspberry, simply pull the lever...and a sixteen-ton weight will drop on his head. i learnt that in malaya. 

second man: suppose you haven't got a sixteen-ton weight? 

rsm: well that's planning, isn't it? forethought. 

second man: how many sixteen-ton weights are there? 

rsm: look...look, smarty pants, the sixteen-ton weight is just one way of dealing with the raspberry killer. there are millions of others! 

fourth man: like what? 

rsm: shoot him. 

second man: well, supposing you haven't got a gun or a sixteen-ton weight? 

rsm: all right clever dick, all right clever dick. you two, come at me with raspberries, there you are, a whole basket each. come on, come at me with them, then. 

second man: no gun? 

rsm: no. 

second man: no sixteen-ton weight? 

fourth man: no pointed stick? 

second man: no rocks up in the ceiling? 

second man: you won't kill us. 

rsm: i won't kill you. 

second man: promise. 

rsm: i promise i won't kill you. now, are you going to attack me? 

second man and fourth man: all right. 

rsm: right, now don't rush me this time. i'm going to turn me back. so you can stalk me...right. come up as quietly as you can, right, close up behind me, then, in with the raspberries, right? start moving 

rsm: right...i know you're there - lurking under the floorboards with your damsons and your prunes...now, the rest of you - i know you're hiding behind the wall bars with your quinces. well i'm ready for you. i've wired myself up to two hundred tons of gelignite, and if any one of you so much as tries anything we'll all go up together! i've warned you...i warned you, right. that's it... 

singer: and did those feet in ancient times, walk upon england's mountains green...we'd like to alter the mood a little, we'd like to bring you something for mum and dad, annie, and roger, mazarin and louis and all at versailles, it's a little number calld 'england's mountains green'. hope you like it. and did those feet in ancient time... 

man: yes, you know it's a man's life in england's mountain green. 

colonel: right i heard that, i heard that, i'm going to stop this sketch now, and if there's any more of this, i'm going to stop the whole programme. i thought it was supposed to be about teeth anyway. why don't you do something about your teeth - go on. 

man: what about my rustic monologue?...i'm not sleeping with 

man: that 

man: producer again. 

voice over: excitement, drama, action, violence, fresh fruit. passion. thrills. spills. romance. adventure, all the things you can read about in a book. 

<scene secret service dentists>

bookseller: er... oh! 

arthur: good morning, i'd like to buy a book please. 

bookseller: oh, well i'm afraid we don't have any. 

arthur: i'm sorry? 

bookseller: we don't have any books. we're fresh out of them. good morning. 

arthur: well what are all these? 

bookseller: all what? oh! all these, ah ah ha ha. your referring to these ... books. 

arthur: yes. 

bookseller: they're um ... they're all sold. good morning. 

arthur: what 

arthur: all 

arthur: of them? 

bookseller: every single man jack of them. not a single one of them in an unsold state. good morning. 

arthur: who to? 

bookseller: what? 

arthur: who are they sold to? 

bookseller: oh ... various ... good lord is that the time? oh my goodness i must close for lunch. 

arthur: it's only half past ten. 

bookseller: ah yes, well i feel rather peckish ... very peckish actually, i don't expect i'll open again today. i think i'll have a really good feed. i say! look at that lovely bookshop just across the road there, they've got a much better selection than we've got, probably at ridiculously low prices ... just across the road there. 

bookseller: good morning. 

arthur: but i was told to come here. 

bookseller: er .,. oh . .. i was just saying ... thinking of the weather.. i hear the gooseberries are doing well this year... and so are the mangoes. 

arthur: mine aren't 

bookseller: go on... 

arthur: what? 

bookseller: go on - mine aren't ... but... 

bookseller: aren't you going to say something about 'mine aren't but the big cheese gets his at low tide tonight'? 

arthur: no. 

bookseller: oh, ah, good morning, 

bookseller: wait. who sent you? 

arthur: the little old lady in the sweet shop. 

bookseller: she didn't have a duelling scar just here ... and a hook? 

bookseller: of course not, i was thinking of somebody else. good morning. 

arthur: wait a minute, there's something going on here. 

bookseller: what, where? you didn't see anything did you? 

arthur: no, but i think there's something going on here. 

bookseller: no no, well there's nothing going on here at all 

bookseller: and he didn't see anything. good morning. 

arthur: there is something going on. 

bookseller: look there is nothing going on. please believe me, there is abso... 

bookseller: . . . lutely nothing going on. is there anything going on? 

bookseller: see there's nothing going on. 

arthur: who was that? 

bookseller: that was my aunt, look what was this book you wanted then? quickly! quickly! 

arthur: oh, well, i'd like to buy a copy of an 'illustrated history of false teeth'. 

bookseller: my god you've got guts. 

bookseller: just how much do you know? 

arthur: what about? 

bookseller: are you from the british dental association? 

arthur: no i'm a tobacconist. 

bookseller: get away from that door. 

arthur: i'll just go over the other... 

bookseller: stay where you are. you'll never leave this bookshop alive. 

arthur: why not? 

bookseller: you know too much, my dental friend. 

arthur: i don't know anything. 

bookseller: come clean. you're a dentist aren't you. 

arthur: no, i'm a tobacconist. 

bookseller: a tobacconist who just happens to be buying a book on ...teeth? 

bookseller: ha ha ha ha... 

lafarge: drop that gun, stapleton. 

bookseller: lafarge! 

bookseller: no there isn't. 

lafarge: ok stapleton, this is it. where's mahoney hidden the fillings? 

bookseller: what fillings? 

lafarge: you know which fillings, stapleton. upper right two and four, lower right three and two lower left one. come on. 

lafarge: remember what happened to nigel. 

arthur: what happened to nigel? 

bookseller: orthodontic jake gave him a gelignite mouth wash. 

arthur: i knew there was something going on. 

bookseller: well there isn't. 

lafarge: come on stapleton. the fillings! 

bookseller: they're at 22 wimpole street. 

lafarge: don't play games with me! 

bookseller: oh, oh, 22a wimpole street. 

lafarge: that's better. 

bookseller: but you'll need an appointment. 

lafarge: ok 

lafarge: brian! make with the appointment baby. no gas. 

lafarge: van der berg! 

van der berg: yes. now drop the roscoe. 

arthur: there 

arthur: is 

arthur: something going on. 

van der berg: get the guns. 

arthur: who's that? 

bookseller: that's van der berg. he's on our side. 

van der berg: all right, get up against the wall lafarge, and you too stapleton. 

bookseller: me? 

van der berg: yes, you! 

bookseller: you dirty double-crossing rat. 

arthur: what's happened? 

bookseller: he's two-timed me. 

arthur: bad luck. 

van der berg: all right ... where are the fillings? answer me, where are they? 

arthur: this is quite exciting. 

brian: not so fast. 

all: brian! 

arthur: ooh, what's that? 

the others: it's a bazooka. 

brian: all right. get against the wall van der berg ... and you nurse. and the first one to try anything moves to a practice six feet underground ... this is an anti-tank gun ... and it's loaded ...and you've just got five seconds to tell me ... whatever happened to baby jane? 

all: what? 

brian: oh ... i'm sorry ... my mind was wandering ... i've had a terrible day... i really have ... you've got five seconds to tell me... i've forgotten. i've forgotten. 

bookseller: the five seconds haven't started yet have they? 

van der berg: only we don't know the question. 

arthur: was it about vogler? 

brian: no, no... no ... you've got five seconds to tell me... 

van der berg: about nigel? 

brian: no. 

lafarge: bronski? 

brian: no. no. 

arthur: the fillings! 

brian: oh yes, the fillings, of course. how stupid of me. right, you've got five seconds ... 

brian: five, four, three, two, one. 

big cheese: drop the bazooka brian. 

all: the big cheese! 

big cheese: i'm glad you could all come to my little ... party. and flopsy's glad too, aren't you, flopsy? 

big cheese: and because i'm so evil you'll all die the slow way ... under the drill. 

arthur: lt's one o'clock. 

big cheese: so it is. lunch break, everyone back here at two. 

arthur: hallo ... give me the british dental association ... and fast. 

arthur: you see, i knew there was something going on. of course, the big cheese made two mistakes. first of all he didn't recognize me: lemming, arthur lemming, special investigator, british dental association, and second ... 

arthur: spit ... by the time i got back from lunch i had every dental surgeon in sw1 waiting for them all in the broom cupboard. funny isn't it, how naughty dentists always make that one fatal mistake. bye for now ... keep your teeth clean. 

colonel: right! no, i warned you, no, i warned you about the slogan, right. that's the end. stop the programme! stop it. 

voice over: ah! got you my lad. still acting eh? over you go! 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 'monty python's flying circus' 

<scene confuse-a-cat>

mr a: oh good, that'll be the vet, dear. 

mrs b: i'd better go and let him in. 

mrs b: it's the vet, dear. 

mr a: oh very glad indeed you could come round, sir. 

vet: not at all. now what seems to be the problem? you can tell me - i'm a vet, you know. 

mrs b: see! tell him, dear. 

mr a: well... 

mrs b: it's our cat. he doesn't do anything. he just sits out there on the lawn. 

vet: is he ... dead? 

mr a: oh, no! 

vet: thank god for that. for one ghastly moment i thought i was... too late. if only more people would call in the nick of time. 

mrs b: he just sits there, all day and every day. 

mr a: and at night. 

mrs b: sh! almost motionless. we have to take his food out to him. 

mr a: and his milk. 

mrs b: sh! he doesn't do anything. he just sits there. 

vet: are you at your wits' end? 

mrs b: definitely, yes. 

vet: hm. i see. well i think i may be able to help you. you see ... 

vet: ... your cat is suffering from what we vets haven't found a word for. his condition is typified by total physical inertia, absence of interest in its ambience - what we vets call environment - failure to respond to the conventional external stimuli - a ball of string, a nice juicy mouse, a bird. to be blunt, your cat is in a rut. it's the old stockbroker syndrome, the suburban fin de siecle ennui, angst, weltschmertz, call it what you will. 

mrs b: moping. 

vet: in a way, in a way ... hum ... moping, i must remember that. now, what's to be done? tell me sir, have you confused your cat recently? 

mr a: well we ... 

mrs b: sh! no. 

vet: yes ... well i think i can definitely say that your cat badly needs to be confused. 

mrs b: what? 

mr a: sh! what? 

vet: confused. to shake it out of its state of complacency. i'm afraid i'm not personally qualified to confuse cats, but i can recommend an extremely good service. here is their card. 

mrs b: oooh. 'confuse-a-cat limited'. 

mr a: 'confuse-a-cat limited'.' 

mrs b: oh. 

sergeant: squad! eyes front! stand at ease. cat confusers ...shun! 

general: well men, we've got a pretty difficult cat to confuse today so let's get straight on with it. jolly good. thank you sergeant. 

sergeant: confusers attend to the van and fetch out... wait for it... fetch out the funny things. 

sergeant: move, move, move. one, two, one, two, get those funny things off. 

sergeant: stage ready for confusing, sir! 

general: very good. carry on, sergeant. 

sergeant: left turn, double march! 

general: right men, confuse the ... cat! 

general: i hope to god it works. anyway, we shall know any minute now. 

mrs b: i can't believe it. 

mr a: neither can i. it's just like the old days. 

mrs b: then he's cured. oh thank you, general. 

mr a: what can we ever do to repay you? 

general: no need to, sir. it's all in a day's work for 'confuse-a-cat'. 

<scene the smuggler>

none: film animation leads us into customs hall. 

officer: have you read this, sir? 

man: no! oh, yes, yes - yes. 

officer: anything to declare? 

man: yes ... no! no! no! no! nothing to declare, no, nothing in my suitcase no... 

officer: no watches, cameras, radio sets? 

man: oh yes ... four watches ... no, no, no. no. one... one watch...no, no. not even one watch. no, no watches at all. no, no watches at all. no precision watches, no. 

officer: which country have you been visiting, sir? 

man: switzerland ... er ... no ... no ... not switzerland ... er ... not switzerland, it began with s but it wasn't switzerland... oh what could it be? terribly bad memory for names. what's the name of that country where they don't make watches at all? 

officer: spain? 

man: spain! that's it. spain, yes, mm. 

officer: the label says 'zurich', sir. 

man: yes well ... it 

man: was 

man: spain then. 

officer: zurich's in switzerland, sir. 

man: switzerland, yes mm ... mm ... yes. 

officer: switzerland - where they make the watches. 

man: oh, nice shed you've got here. 

officer: have you, er, got any swiss currency, sir? 

man: no... just the watches... er just my watch, er, my watch on the currency... i've kept a watch on the currency, and i've watched it and i haven't got any. 

officer: that came out a bit glib didn't it? 

officer: have you got an alarm clock in there, sir? 

man: no, no, heavens no, no... just vests. 

officer: sounded a bit like an alarm going off. 

man: well it can't have been... it must be a vest, er, going off. 

officer: going off? 

man: all right, i confess, i'm a smuggler ... this whole case is crammed full of swiss watches and clocks. i've been purposely trying to deceive her majesty's customs and excise. i've been a bloody fool. 

officer: i don't believe you, sir. 

man: it's true. i'm, er, guilty of smuggling. 

officer: don't give me that, sir ... you couldn't smuggle a piece of greaseproof paper let alone a case full of watches. 

man: what do you mean! i've smuggled watches before, you know! i've smuggled bombs, cameras, microfilms, aircraft components, you name it - i've smuggled it. 

officer: now come along please, you're wasting our time... move along please. 

man: look! 

man: look - look at this. 

officer: look, for all i know, sir, you could've bought these in london before you ever went to switzerland. 

man: what? i wouldn't buy two thousand clocks. 

officer: people do, now close your case move along please come on. don't waste our time, we're out to catch the real smugglers. come on. 

vicar: poor fellow. i think he needs help. 

officer: right, cut the wisecracks, vicar. get to the search room, and strip. 

<scene a duck, a cat and a lizard (discussion)>

chairman: well to discuss the implications of that sketch and to consider the moral problems raised by the law-enforcement methods involved we have a duck, a cat and a lizard. now first of all i'd like to put this question to you please, lizard. how effective do you consider the legal weapons employed by legal customs officers, nowadays? 

chairman: no. well, er, let's ask the man in the street what he thinks. 

<scene vox pops on smuggling>

french au pair: i am not a man you silly billy. 

man on roof: i'm not in the street you fairy. 

man in street: well, er, speaking 

man in street: as 

man in street: wagh! 

man: what was the question again? 

voice over: just how relevant are contemporary customs regulations and currency restrictions in a modern expanding industrial economy? 

voice over: oh never mind. 

pepperpot: well i think customs men should be armed, so they can kill people carrying more than two hundred cigarettes. 

man: i mean if i want to eat a squirrel now and again, that's me own business, innit? i mean, i'm no racialist. i, oh, oh... 

woman: i think it's silly to ask a lizard what it thinks, anyway. 

chairman: why? 

woman: i mean they should have asked margaret drabble. 

young man: well i think, er, customs people are quite necessary, and i think they're doing quite a good job really. check. 

<scene police raid>

young man: door's open. 

policeman: oh. yes. 

policeman: all right. all right, all right, all right. my name's police constable henry thatcher, and this is a raid. i have reason to believe that there are certain substances on the premises. 

young man: well what sort of substances, officer? 

policeman: er... certain substances. 

young man: well, what sort of certain substances? 

policeman: er, certain substances of an illicit nature. 

young man: er, could you be more specific? 

policeman: i beg your pardon? 

young man: could you be 'clearer'. 

policeman: oh, oh ... yes, er ... certain substances on the premises. to be removed for clinical tests. 

young man: have you got anything patiticular in mind? 

policeman: well what have you got? 

young man: nothing, officer. 

policeman: you are sandy camp the actor? 

young man: yes. 

policeman: i must warn you, sir, that outside i have police dog josephine, who is not only armed, and trained to sniff out certain substances, but is also a junkie. 

young man: what are you after ... ? 

policeman: oo! oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! here is a brown paper bag i have found on the premises. i must confiscate this, sir, and take it with me for clinical examination. 

young man: wait a minute. you just got that out of your pocket. 

policeman: what? 

young man: sandwiches. 

policeman: sandwiches? blimey. whatever did i give the wife? 

<scene letters and vox pops>

voice over: dear bbc, east grinstead, friday. i feel i really must write and protest about that sketch. my husband, in common with a lot of people of his age, is fifty. for how long are we to put up with these things. yours sincerely, e. b. debenham (mrs). 

voice over: dear freddy grisewood, bagshot, surrey. as a prolific letter-writer, i feel i must protest about the previous letter. i am nearly sixty and am quite mad, but i do enjoy listening to the bbc home service. if this continues to go on unabated ...dunkirk... dark days of the war... backs to the wall... alvar liddell ... berlin air lift ... moral upheaval of profumo case ... young hippies roaming the streets, raping, looting and killing. yours etc., brigadier arthur gormanstrop (mrs). 

pepperpot: well i think they should attack things, like that - with satire. i mean ned sherrin. fair's fair. i think people should be able to make up their own minds for me. 

woman journalist: well i think they should attack the fuddy-duddy attitudes of the lower middle classes which permit the establishment to survive and keep the mores of the whole country back where they were in the nineteenth century and the ghastly days of the pre-sexual revolution. 

scotsman: well that's, er, very interesting, because, er, i am, in fact, made entirely of wood. 

stockbroker: well i think they should attack the lower classes, er, first with bombs, and rockets destroying their homes, and then when they run helpless into the streets, er, mowing them down with machine guns. er, and then of course releasing the vultures. i know these views aren't popular, but i have never courted popularity. 

boy: i think there should be more race prejudice. 

boy: less race prejudice. 

<scene newsreader arrested>

newsreader: excuse me a minute... 

other newsreader: we understand a man is now helping police with their enquiries. and that is the end of the news. 

other newsreader: and now, 'match of the day'. 

<scene erotic film>

newsreader: ah, i, um terribly sorry it's not in fact 'match of the day'-, it is in fact edited highlights of tonight's romantic movie. er. sorry. 

she: oh, oh, oh bevis, should we? 

bevis: oh dora. why not? 

she: be gentle with me. 

she: anything or are you just going to show me films all evening? 

bevis: just one more, dear. 

she: oh. 

<scene silly job interview>

none: cut to an interview room. 

interviewer: you know i really enjoy interviewing applicants for this management training course. 

interviewer: ah. come and sit down. 

stig: thank you. 

interviewer: take a seat. 

stig: i'm sorry. 

interviewer: good morning. 

stig: good morning. 

interviewer: tell me why did you say 'good morning' when you know perfectly well that it's afternoon? 

stig: well, well, you said 'good morning'. ha, ha. 

interviewer: good afternoon. 

stig: ah, good afternoon. 

interviewer: oh dear. 

interviewer: good evening. 

stig: ... goodbye? 

interviewer: ha, ha. no. 

stig: er why did you ring the bell? 

interviewer: why do you think i rang the bell? 

interviewer: five, four, three, two, one, zero! 

stig: well, i, i... 

interviewer: too late! 

interviewer: goodnight, ding-ding-ding-ding-ding. goodnight. ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding. 

stig: um. oh this is, is the interview for the management training course is it? 

interviewer: yes. yes it is. goodnight. ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. 

stig: oh. oh dear, i don't think i'm doing very well. 

interviewer: why do you say that? 

stig: well i don't know. 

interviewer: do you say it because you didn't know? 

stig: well. i, i, i, i don't know. 

interviewer: five, four, three, two, one, zero! right! 

stig: i'm sorry, i'm confused. 

interviewer: well why do you think i did that then? 

interviewer: aren't you curious? 

stig: well yes. 

interviewer: well, why didn't you ask me? 

stig: well...i...er... 

interviewer: name? 

stig: what? 

interviewer: your name man, your name! 

stig: um, er david. 

interviewer: david. sure? 

stig: oh yes. 

interviewer: david shaw. 

stig: no, no thomas. 

interviewer: thomas shaw? 

stig: no, no, david thomas. 

interviewer: goodnight. ding-ding-ding-ding-ding- ding-ding-ding. goodnight. ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding. 

stig: oh dear we're back to that again. i don't know what to do when you do that. 

interviewer: well do something. goodnight. ding-ding-ding-ding-ding, five, four, three, two, one . . . 

interviewer: good! 

stig: good? 

interviewer: very good - do it again. 

interviewer: goodnight, ding-ding-ding-ding-ding-ding. 

stig: what's going on? what's going on? 

interviewer: you've got very good marks. 

stig: well i don't care, i want to know what's going on! i think you're deliberately trying to humiliate people, and i'm going straight out of here and i'm going to tell the police exactly what you do to people and i'm going to make bloody sure that you never do it again. there, what do you think of that? what do you think of that? 

interviewer: very 

interviewer: good marks. 

stig: oh, oh well, do i get the job? 

interviewer: er, well, i'm afraid not. i'm afraid all the vacancies were filled several weeks ago. 

<scene careers advisory board>

man: well that was all good fun, and we all had a jolly good laugh, but i would like to assure you that you'd never be treated like that if you had an interview here at the careers advisory board. perhaps i should introduce myself. i am the head of the careers advisory board. i wanted to be a doctor, but there we are, i'm head of the careers advisory board. 

man: never mind, now i wonder if you've ever considered what a very profitable line of work this man is in. 

<scene burglar/encyclopedia salesman>

man: burglar! 

woman: yes? 

man: burglar, madam. 

woman: what do you want? 

man: i want to come in and steal a few things, madam. 

woman: are you an encydopaedia salesman? 

man: no madam, i'm a burglar, i burgle people. 

woman: i think you're an encyclopaedia salesman. 

man: oh i'm not, open the door, let me in please. 

woman: if i let you in you'll sell me encyclopaedias. 

man: i won't, madam. i just want to come in and ransack the flat. honestly. 

woman: promise. no encyclopaedias? 

man: none at all. 

woman: all right. 

woman: you'd better come in then. 

man: mind you i don't know whether you've really considered the advantages of owning a really fine set of modern encyclopaedias... 

man: you know, they can really do you wonders. 

man: that man was a successful encyclopaedia salesman. but not all encyclopaedia salesmen are successful. here is an unsuccessful encyclopaedia salesman. 

man: now here are two unsuccessful encyclopaedia salesmen. 

man: i think there's a lesson there for all of us. 

none: caption: '"man's crisis of identity in the latter half of the 20th century" was concieved, written and performed by... (credits)' 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

man: i thought you did that so well mr figgis, could i have your autograph? 

figgis: you certainly can 

<scene 'it's the arts'>

<scene johann gambolputty.... von hautkopf of ulm>

figgis: beethoven, mozart, chopin, liszt, brahms, panties...i'm sorry...schumann, schubert, mendelssohn and bach. names that will live for ever. but there is one composer whose name is never included with the greats. why is it that the world never remembered the name of johann gambolputty de von ausfern- schplenden- schlitter- crasscrenbon- fried- digger- dingle- dangle- dongle- dungle- burstein- von- knacker- thrasher- apple- banger- horowitz- ticolensic- grander- knotty- spelltinkle- grandlich- grumblemeyer- spelterwasser- kurstlich- himbleeisen- bahnwagen- gutenabend- bitte- ein- nürnburger- bratwustle- gerspurten- mitz- weimache- luber- hundsfut- gumberaber- shönedanker- kalbsfleisch- mittler- aucher von hautkopft of ulm? to do justice to this man, thought by many to be the greatest name in german baroque music, we present a profile of johann gambolputty de von ausfern- schplenden- schlitter- crasscrenbon- fried- digger- dingle- dangle- dongle- dungle- burstein- von- knacker- thrasher- apple- banger- horowitz- ticolensic- grander- knotty- spelltinkle- grandlich- grumblemeyer- spelterwasser- kurstlich- himbleeisen- bahnwagen- gutenabend- bitte- ein- nürnburger- bratwustle- gerspurten- mitz- weimache- luber- hundsfut- gumberaber- shönedanker- kalbsfleisch- mittler- aucher von hautkopft of ulm. we start with an interview with his only surviving relative karl gambolputty de von ausfern... 

karl: oh ja. when i first met johann gambolputty de von ausfern- schplenden- schlitter- crasscrenbon- fried- digger- dingle- dangle- dongle- dungle- burstein- von- knacker- thrasher- apple- banger- horowitz- ticolensic- grander- knotty- spelltinkle- grandlich- grumblemeyer- spelterwasser- kurstlich- himbleeisen- bahnwagen- gutenabend- bitte- ein- nürnburger- bratwustle- gerspurten- mitz- weimache- luber- hundsfut- gumberaber- shönedanker- kalbsfleisch- mittler- aucher von hautkopft of ulm, he was with his wife, sarah gambolputty de von... 

interviewer: yes, if i may just cut in on you there, herr gambolputty de von ausfern- schplenden- schlitter- crasscrenbon- fried- digger- dingle- dangle- dongle- dungle- burstein- von- knacker- thrasher- apple- banger- horowitz- ticolensic- grander- knotty- spelltinkle- grandlich- grumblemeyer- spelterwasser- kurstlich- himbleeisen- bahnwagen- gutenabend- bitte- ein- nürnburger- bratwustle- gerspurten- mitz- weimache- luber- hundsfut- gumberaber- shönedanker- kalbsfleisch- mittler- aucher von hautkopft of ulm, and ask you - just quickly - if there's any particular thing that you remember about johann gambolputty de von ausfern- schplenden- schlitter- crasscrenbon- fried- digger- dingle- dangle- dongle- dungle- burstein- von- knacker- thrasher- apple- banger- horowitz- ticolensic- grander- knotty- spelltinkle- grandlich- grumblemeyer- spelterwasser- kurstlich- himbleeisen- bahnwagen- gutenabend- bitte- ein- nürnburger- bratwustle- gerspurten- mitz- weimache- luber- hundsfut- gumberaber- shönedanker- kalbsfleisch- mittler- aucher von hautkopft of ulm? 

figgis: a tribute to johann gambolputty... 

viking: ...de von ausfern- schplenden- schlitter... 

man: ...crasscrenbon- fried- digger- dingle- dangle- dongle... 

figgis: ...of ulm. 

<scene non-illegal robbery>

none: animation: 

boss: all clear? 

fifth: all clear, boss. 

boss: right ... this is the plan then. at 10:45 .. you, reg, collect me and ken in the van, and take us round to the british jewellery centre in the high street. we will arrive outside the british jewellery centre at 10:50 a of m. i shall then get out of the car, you reg, take it and park it back here in denver street, right? at 10:51, i shall enter the british jewellery centre, where you, vic, disguised as a customer, will meet me and hand me £5.18.3d. at 10:52, i shall approach the counter and purchase a watch costing £5.18.3d. i shall then give the watch to you, vic. you'll go straight to norman's garage in east street. you lads continue back up here at 10:56 and we rendezvous in the back room at the cow and sickle, at 11:15. all right, any questions? 

larry: we don't seem to be doing anything illegal. 

boss: what do you mean? 

larry: well ... we're paying for the watch. 

boss: yes... 

larry: for the watch? 

boss: for it, would they... eh? 

larry: look! i don't like this outfit. 

boss: why not? 

larry: well, we never break the bloody law. 

boss: what d'you mean? 

larry: well, look at that bank job last week. 

boss: what was wrong with that? 

larry: well having to go in there with a mask on and ask for £15 out of my deposit account; that's what was wrong with it. 

boss: listen! what are you trying to say, larry? 

larry: couldn't we just steal the watch, boss 

boss: oh, you dumb cluck! we spent weeks organizing this job. reg rented a room across the road and filmed the people going in and out every day. vic spent three weeks looking at watch catalogues...until he knew the price of each one backwards, and now i'm not going to risk the whole raid just for the sake of breaking the law. 

larry: urr... couldn't we park on a double yellow line? 

boss: no! 

larry: couldn't we get a dog to foul the foot... 

reg: 'ere, boss! 

boss: what's the matter with you? 

reg: i just thought... i left the car on a meter... and it's... 

boss: overdue? 

reg: yes, boss. 

boss: how much? 

reg: i dunno, boss... maybe two ... maybe five minutes ... 

boss: five minutes overdue. you fool! you fool! all right ... we've no time to lose. ken - shave all your hair off, get your passport and meet me at this address in rio de janeiro tuesday night. vic - go to east africa, have plastic surgery and meet me there. reg - go to canada and work your way south to nicaragua by july. larry - you stay here as front man. give us fifteen minutes then blow the building up. all right, make it fast. 

larry: i can't blow the building up. 

larry: it's illegal. 

boss: oh bloody hell. well we'd better give ourselves up then. 

reg: we can't, boss. 

reg: we haven't done anything illegal. 

<scene vox pops>

bandit: no i think being illegal makes it more exciting. 

second bandit: yes, i agree. i mean, if you're going to go straight you might as well be a vicar or something. 

vicar: what? 

chartered accountant: i agree. if there were fewer robbers there wouldn't be so many of them, numerically speaking. 

pepperpot: i think sexual ecstasy is over-rated. 

scotsman: well, how very interesting, because i'm now made entirely of tin. 

praline: after a few more of these remarks, i shall be appearing in a sketch, so stay tuned. 

policeman: it's the uniform that puts them off, that and my bad breath. 

judge: we like dressing up, yes... 

inspector praline: hello again. i am at present still on film, but in a few seconds i shall be appearing in the studio. thank you. 

<scene crunchy frog>

praline: mr milton? you are sole proprietor and owner of the whizzo chocolate company? 

milton: i am. 

praline: superintendent parrot and i are from the hygiene squad.we want to have a word with you about your box of chocolates entitled the whizzo quality assortment. 

milton: ah, yes. 

praline: if i may begin at the beginning. first there is the cherry fondue. this is extremely nasty, but we can't prosecute you for that. 

milton: agreed. 

praline: next we have number four, 'crunchy frog'. 

milton: an, yes. 

praline: am i right in thinking there's a real frog in here? 

milton: yes. a little one. 

praline: what sort of frog? 

milton: a dead frog. 

praline: is it cooked? 

milton: no. 

praline: what, a raw frog? 

milton: we use only the finest baby frogs, dew-picked and flown from iraq, cleansed in the finest quality spring water, lightly killed, and then sealed in a succulent swiss quintuple smooth treble cream milk chocolate envelope, and lovingly frosted with glucose. 

praline: that's as may be, but it's still a frog! 

milton: what else? 

praline: well don't you even take the bones out? 

milton: if we took the bones out it wouldn't be crunchy would it? 

praline: superintendent parrot ate one of those. 

parrot: excuse me a moment. 

praline: well, the superintendent thought it was an almond whirl. people won't expect there to be a frog in there. they're bound to think it's some sort of mock frog. 

milton: mock frog? we use no artificial preservatives or additives of any kind! 

praline: nevertheless, i must warn you that in future you should delete the words 'crunchy frog', and replace them with the legend, 'crunchy raw unboned real dead frog' if you want to avoid prosecution. 

milton: what about our sales? 

praline: i'm not interested in your sales! i have to protect the general public! now what about this one. 

praline: what sort of confection is this? 

milton: we use choicest juicy chunks of fresh cornish ram's bladder, emptied, steamed, flavoured with sesame seeds, whipped into a fondue and garnished with lark's vomit. 

praline: larks vomit? 

milton: correct. 

praline: well it don't say nothing about that here. 

milton: oh yes it does, on the bottom of the box, after monosodium glutamate. 

praline: wel i hardly think this is good enough. i think it's be more appropriate if the box bore a great red label warning lark's vomit. 

milton: our sales would plummet! 

praline: well why don't you move into more conventional areas of confectionary, like praline or lime cream; a very popular flavor, i'm lead to understand. 

praline: anthrax ripple! what's this one: 'spring surprise'? 

milton: ah - now, that's our speciality - covered with darkest creamy chocolate. when you pop it into your mouth steel bolts spring out and plunge straight through both cheeks. 

praline: well where's the pleasure in that? if people place a nice chocky in their mouth, they don't want their cheeks pierced. in any case this is an inadequate description of the sweetmeat. i shall have to ask you to accompany me to the station. 

milton: it's a fair cop. 

praline: stop talking to the camera. 

milton: i'm sorry. 

parrot: if only the general public would take more care when buying its sweeties, it would reduce the number of man-hours lost to the nation and they would spend less time having their stomachs pumped and sitting around in public lavatories. 

announcer: the bbc would like to apologize for the extremely poor quality of the next announcement, only he's not at all well. 

<scene the dull life of a city stockbroker>

parrot: we present 'the dull life of a city stockbroker', 

<scene red indian in theatre>

man: coming right up - the theatre sketch - so don't move! 

indian: me heap want see play. me want play start heap soon. 

man: yes well. i think it ... begins in a minute. 

indian: me heap big fan cicely courtneidge. 

man: yes ... she's very good. 

indian: she fine actress ... she make interpretation heap subtle ... she heap good diction and timing ... she make part really live for indian brave. 

man: yes ... yes ... she's marvelous... 

indian: my father - chief running stag - leader of mighty redfoot tribe - him heap keen on michael denison and dulcie gray. 

man: do you go to the theatre a lot? 

indian: when moon high over prairie ... when wolf howl over mountain, when mighty wind roar through yellow valley, we go leatherhead rep - block booking, upper circle - whole tribe get it on 3/6d each. 

man: that's very good. 

indian: stage manager, stan wilson, heap good friend redfoot tribe. after show we go pow-wow speakum with director, sandy camp, in snug bar of bell and compasses. him mighty fine director. him heap famous. 

man: oh - i don't know him myself. 

indian: him say leatherhead rep like do play with redfoot tribe. 

man: oh that's good... 

indian: we do 'dial m for murder'. chief running elk - him kill buffalo with bare hands, run thousand paces when the sun is high - him play chief inspector hardy - heap good fine actor. 

man: you do a lot of acting do you? 

indian: yes. redfoot tribe live by acting and hunting. 

man: you don't fight any more? 

indian: yes! redfoot make war! when chief yellow snake was leader, and mighty eagle was in land of forefather, we fight pawnee at oxbow crossing. when pawnee steal our rehearsal copies of 'reluctant debutante' we kill fifty pawnee - houses heap full every night. heap good publicity. 

man: i think he's about to start now, thank god for that. 

man: no, thank you very much. 

indian: hmmm - crunchy frog - heap good. 

house manager: ladies and gentlemen. before the play starts, i would like to apologize to you all, but unfortunately miss cicely courtneidge is unable to appear, owing to... 

mum: d'you read that, edgar? 

dad: what's that dear? 

mum: there's been another indian massacre at dorking civic theatre. 

dad: about time too dear... 

mum: 'those who were left alive at the end got their money back'. 

dad: that's what live theatre needs - a few more massacres... 

mum: 'the police are anxious to speak to anyone who saw the crime, ladies with large breasts, or just anyone who likes policemen.' 

policeman: yes! policemen make wonderful friends. so if you are over six feet tall and would like a friend, a pen friend, in the police force, here is the address to write to: 'mrs ena frog, 8 masonic apron street, cowdenbeath'. remember - policemen make wonderful friends. so write today and take advantage of our free officer. thank you. and now for the next sketch. 

<scene a scotsman on a horse>

mum: a scotsman on a horse. 

policeman: for mrs emma hamilton of nelson, a scotsman on a horse. 

<scene twentieth-century vole>

none: animation, 

larry: good morning boys. 

writers: good morning mr saltzberg. 

larry: i want you to know that i've had an idea for the next movie i'm going to produce and i want you boys to write it. 

larry: oh sit down! sit down! sit down! there'll be plenty of time for that later on. now boys, here's my idea... 

third writer: it's great! 

larry: you like it huh? 

larry: like it? 

first writer: yeah! er ... yeah. 

larry: about it? 

first writer: oh well you haven't told us... what it is yet... 

larry: what!? 

first writer: i like what he likes. 

larry: what do you like? 

second writer: i like what he likes. 

third writer: i like what he likes. 

fourth writer: i like what he likes 

fifth writer: i just crazy about what he likes 

sixth writer: i ... i ... i ... agree with them. 

larry: good! now we're getting somewhere. now, here's the start of the movie ... i see snow! 

larry: white snow! 

fourth writer: think of the colours! 

larry: and in the snow, i see ... a tree! 

larry: wait, wait i haven't finished yet. 

third writer: there's 

third writer: more 

third writer: ? 

larry: and by this tree, gentlemen, i see ... a dog! 

writers: olé! 

larry: and gentlemen, this dog goes up to the tree, and he piddles on it. 

writers: hallelujah! 

sixth writer: have we got a movie! 

fifth writer: he tells it the way it is! 

fourth writer: it's where it's at! 

third writer: this is something else! 

second writer: it's out of sight! 

first writer: i like it, i like it. 

larry: oh yeah? 

first writer: yeah, yeah, i 

first writer: promise 

first writer: i like it 

fifth writer: sir, i don't know how to say this but i got to be perfectly frank. i really and truly believe this story of yours is the greatest story in motion-picture history. 

larry: get out! 

fifth writer: what? 

larry: if there's one thing i can't stand, it's a yes-man! get out! 

larry: what do you think? 

sixth writer: well... i... 

larry: just because i have an idea it doesn't mean it's great. it could be lousy. 

sixth writer: it could? 

larry: yeah! what d'ya think? 

sixth writer: it's lousy. 

larry: there you are, you see, he spoke his mind. he said my idea was lousy. it just so happens my idea isn't lousy so get out you goddam pinko subversive, get out! 

fourth writer: well ... i think it's an excellent idea. 

larry: are you a yes-man? 

fourth writer: no, no, no, i mean there may be things against it. 

larry: you think it's lousy, huh? 

fourth writer: no, no, i mean it takes time. 

larry: are you being indecisive? 

fourth writer: yo. nes. perhaps. 

larry: i hope you three gentlemen aren't going to be indecisive! 

larry: what the hell are you doing under that table? 

first writer: we dropped our pencils. 

larry: pencil droppers, eh? 

writers: no, no, no, no, no! 

larry: right. now i want your opinion of my idea ... 

larry: you... 

first writer: oh... 

larry: has he had a heart attack? 

second and third writers: er... 

larry: if there's one thing i can't stand, it's people who have heart attacks. 

first writer: i feel fine now. 

larry: well, what do you think? 

writers: oh! eh! you didn't ask me you asked him. he didn't ask me, he asked him. no, him. 

larry: i've changed my mind. i'm asking you, the one in the middle. 

second writer: the one in the middle? 

larry: yes, the one in the middle. 

larry: what the hell are you doing? 

second writer: i'm thinking. 

larry: get back in those seats immediately. 

larry: right you. the one in the middle, what do you think? 

second writer: er... er... 

larry: come on! 

second writer: splunge. 

larry: did he say splunge? 

first and third writers: yes. 

larry: what does splunge mean? 

second writer: it means ... it's a great-idea-but-possibly-not-and-i'm-not-being-indecisive! 

larry: good. right . .. 

third writer: er. splunge? 

larry: ok... 

first writer: yeah. splunge for me too. 

larry: so all three of you think splunge, huh? 

writers: yes! 

larry: well now we're getting somewhere. no, wait. a new angle! in the snow, instead of the tree, i see rock hudson, and instead of the dog i see doris day and, gentlemen, doris day goes up to rock hudson and she kisses him. a love story. intercourse italian style. david hemmings as a hippy gestapo officer. frontal nudity. a family picture. a comedy. and then when doris day's kissed rock hudson she says something funny like... 

third writer: er ... good evening. 

larry: doris day's a comedienne, not a newsreader. get out! 

second writer: splunge? 

larry: that's the stupidest idea i ever heard. get out! 

first writer: er... er... er... i can't take it anymore. 

larry: i like that! i like that, i can't take it any more, and then rock hudson says 'i'm a very rich film producer and i need a lobotomy' and then doris dog says 'i think you're very handsome and i'm going to take all my clothes off' and then doris dog turns into a yak and goes to the bathroom on david lemming. no, wait, wait! 

larry: produced by irving c. saltzberg jnr. of irving c. saltzberg productions ltd. and saltzberg art films, oil, real estate, banking and prostitution inc. 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

<scene camel spotting>

none: in the country. interviewer with microphone. behind him a man sits on a wall, with clip-board, binoculars and spotting gear. 

interviewer: good evening. tonight we're going to take a hard tough abrasive look at camel spotting. hello. 

spotter: hello peter. 

interviewer: now tell me, what exactly are you doing? 

spotter: er well, i'm camel spotting. i'm spotting to see if there are any camels that i can spot, and put them down in my camel spotting book. 

interviewer: good. and how many camels have you spotted so far? 

spotter: oh, well so far peter, up to the present moment, i've spotted nearly, ooh, nearly one. 

interviewer: nearly one? 

spotter: er, call it none. 

interviewer: fine. and er how long have you been here? 

spotter: three years. 

interviewer: so, in, er, three years you've spotted no camels? 

spotter: yes in only three years. er, i tell a lie, four, be fair, five. i've been camel spotting for just the seven years. before that of course i was a yeti spotter. 

interviewer: a yeti spotter, that must have been extremely interesting. 

spotter: oh, it was extremely interesting, very, very - quite... it was dull; dull, dull, dull, oh god it was dull. sitting in the waterloo waiting room. course once you've seen one yeti you've seen them all. 

interviewer: and have you seen them all? 

spotter: well i've seen one. well a little one... a picture of a... i've heard about them. 

interviewer: well, now tell me, what do you do when you spot a camel? 

spotter: er, i take its number. 

interviewer: camels don't have numbers. 

spotter: ah, well you've got to know where to look. er, they're on the side of the engine above the piston box. 

interviewer: what? 

spotter: ah - of course you've got to make sure it's not a dromedary. 'cos if it's a dromedary it goes in the dromedary book. 

interviewer: well how do you tell if it's a dromedary? 

spotter: ah well, a dromedary has one hump and a camel has a refreshment car, buffet, and ticket collector. 

interviewer: mr sopwith, aren't you in fact a train spotter? 

spotter: what? 

interviewer: don't you in fact spot trains? 

<scene you're no fun any more>

spotter: oh, you're no fun anymore. 

none: animation: 

girl: oh, you're no fun anymore. 

lasher: .. thirty-nine... forty. all right, cut him down, mr fuller. 

lashee: oh you're no fun anymore. 

spotter: now if anybody else pinches my phrase i'll throw them under a camel. 

interviewer: if you can spot one. 

<scene the audit>

none: cut to a small board meeting. an accountant stands up an reads... 

accountant: lady chairman, sir, shareholders, ladies and gentlemen. i have great pleasure in announcing that owing to a cutback on surplus expenditure of twelve million canadian dollars, plus a refund of seven and a half million deutschmarks from the swiss branch, and in addition adding the debenture preference stock of the three and three quarter million to the directors' reserve currency account of seven and a half million, plus an upward expenditure margin of eleven and a half thousand lira, due to a rise in capital investment of ten million pounds, this firm last year made a complete profit of a shilling. 

chairman: a shilling wilkins? 

accountant: er, roughly, yes sir. 

chairman: wilkins, i am the chairman of a multi-million pound corporation and you are a very new chartered accountant. isn't it possible there may have been some mistake? 

accountant: well that's very kind of you sir, but i don't think i'm ready to be chairman yet. 

board member: wilkins, wilkins. this shilling, is it net or gross? 

accountant: it's british sir. 

chairman: yes, has tax been paid on it? 

accountant: yes, this is after tax. owing to the rigorous bite of the income tax five pence of a further sixpence was swallowed up in tax. 

board member: five pence of a 

board member: further 

board member: sixpence? 

accountant: yes sir. 

chairman: five pence of a further 

chairman: sixpence 

chairman: ? 

accountant: that's right sir. 

chairman: then where is the other penny? 

accountant: ... er. 

board member: that makes you a penny short wilkins. where is it? 

accountant: ... erm. 

chairman: wilkins? 

accountant: i embezzled it sir. 

chairman: what all of it? 

accountant: yes all of it. 

board member: you naughty person. 

accountant: it's my first. please be gentle with me. 

chairman: i'm afraid it's my unpleasant duty to inform you that you're fired. 

accountant: oh please, please. 

chairman: no, out! 

chairman: yes, there's no place for sentiment in big business. 

bishop: oh you're no fun anymore. 

spotter: i heard that. who said that? 

bishop: no i didn't. 

all: ooh! 

spotter: right! 

voice over: here is the address to complain to ... 

voice over: the royal frog trampling institute, 16 rayners lane, london, w.c. fields. i'll just repeat that... 

voice over: tristram and isolde phillips, 7.30 covent garden saturday (near sunday) and afterwards at the inigo jones fish emporium. 

jewish figure: and they want to put the licence fee up? 

voice over: and now here is a reminder about leaving your radio on during the night. leave your radio on during the night. 

<scene science fiction sketch>

redcoat: a little joke, a little jest. nothing to worry about ladies and gentlemen. now we've got some science fiction for you, some sci-fi, something to send the shivers up your spine, send the creepy crawlies down your lager and limes. all the lads have contributed to it, it's a little number entitled, science fiction sketch... 

american voice: the universe consists of a billion, billion galaxies... 77,000,000,000 miles across, and every galaxy is made up of a billion, zillion stars and around these stars circle a billion planets, and of all of these planets the greenest and the pleasantest is the planet earth, in the system of sol, in the galaxy known as the milky way ... and it was to this world that creatures of an alien planet came ... to conquer and destroy the very heart of civilization... 

american voice: ... harold potter, gardener, and tax official, first victim of creatures from another planet. 

<scene man turns into scotsman>

newsvendor's voice: read all abaht it! read all abaht it! man turns into scotsman! 

inspector: mrs potter - you knew harold potter quite well i believe? 

wife: oh yes quite well. 

inspector: yes. 

wife: he was my husband. 

inspector: yes. and, er, he never showed any inclination towards being a scotsman before this happened? 

wife: no, no, not at all. he was not that sort of person... 

inspector: he didn't wear a kilt or play the bagpipes? 

wife: no, no. 

inspector: he never got drunk at night or bought home black puddings? 

wife: no, no. not at all. 

inspector: he didn't have an inadequate brain capacity? 

wife: no, no, not at all. 

inspector: i see. so by your account harold potter was a perfectly ordinary englishman without any tendency towards being a scotsman whatsoever? 

wife: absolutely, yes. 

wife: mind you he did always watch dr finlay on television. 

inspector: ah-hah! ... well that's it, you see. that's how it starts. 

wife: i beg your pardon? 

inspector: well you see scottishness starts with little things like that, and works up. you see, people don't just turn into a scotsman for no reason at all... 

inspector: no further questions! 

she: charles... 

charles: darling... 

she: charles... 

charles: darling, darling... 

she: charles... there's something i've got to tell you... 

charles: what is it darling? 

she: it's daddy ... he's turned into a scotsman... 

charles: what! mr llewellyn? 

she: yes, charles. help me, please help me. 

charles: but what can i do? 

she: surely, charles, you're the chief scientist at the anthropological research institute, at butley down - an expert in what makes people change from one nationality to another. 

charles: so i am! 

charles: this is right up my street! 

she: oh good. 

charles: now first of all, why would anyone turn into a scotsman? 

charles: no, no! only because he has no control over his own destiny! look i'll show you... 

charles: yes! so this means that some person or persons unknown is turning all these people into scotsmen... 

she: oh, what kind of heartless fiend could 

she: do 

she: that to a man? 

charles: i don't know ... i don't know ... all i know is that these people are streaming north of the border at the rate of thousands every hour. if we don't act fast, scotland will be choked with scotsmen... 

she: ooh!... 

american voice: soon scotland was full of scotsmen. the over-crowding was pitiful. 

american voice: three men to a caber. 

american voice: for the few who remained, life was increasingly difficult. 

charles: hello mummy. 

she: no, no, mummy's turned into a scotsman... 

charles: oh how horrible... will they stop at nothing? 

she: i don't know - do you think they will? 

charles: i meant that rhetorically. 

she: what does rhetorically mean? 

charles: it means, i didn't expect an answer. 

she: oh i see. oh, you're so clever, charles. 

charles: did mummy say anything as she changed? 

charles: well, what was it? 

she: oh, she said ... 'them!' 

charles: no ... it's just the incidental music for this scene. 

she: oh i see... 

charles: 'them' ... wait a minute! 

she: a 

she: whole 

she: minute? 

charles: no, i meant that metaphorically ... 'them' ... 'them' ... she was obviously referring to the people who turned her into a scotsman. if only we knew who 'they' were ... and why 'they' were doing it... who are 'them'? 

american voice: then suddenly a clue turned up in scotland. mr angus podgorny, owner of a dunbar menswear shop, received an order for 48,000,000 kilts from the planet skyron in the galaxy of andromeda. 

mrs podgorny: angus how are y'going to get 48,000,000 kilts into the van? 

angus: i'll have t'do it in two goes. 

mrs podgorny: d'you not ken that the galaxy of andromeda is two million, two hundred thousand light years away? 

angus: is that so? 

mrs podgorny: aye ... and you've never been further than berwick-on-tweed... 

angus: aye ... but think o' the money dear ... £18.10.0d a kilt ...that's ... 

angus: £900,000,000 - and that's without sporrans! 

mrs podgorny: aye ... i think you ought not to go, angus. 

angus: aye ... we'd be able to afford writing paper with our names on it... we'd be able to buy that extension to the toilet... 

mrs podgorny: aye ... but he hasn't signed the order yet, has he? 

angus: who? 

mrs podgorny: ach ... the man from andromeda. 

angus: och ... well ... he wasna really a man, d'you ken ... 

mrs podgorny: not really a man? 

angus: he was as strange a thing as ever i saw, or ever i hope to see, god willing. he was a strange unearthly creature - a quivering, glistening mass... 

mrs podgorny: angus podgorny, what 

mrs podgorny: do 

mrs podgorny: y'mean? 

angus: he wasna so much a man as... a blancmange! 

<scene police station>

sergeant: a blancmange, eh? 

girl: yes, that's right. i was just having a game of doubles with sandra and jocasta, alec and david... 

sergeant: hang on! 

girl: what? 

sergeant: there's five. 

sergeant: five people . . . how do you play doubles with five people? 

girl: ah, well ... we were... 

sergeant: sounds a bit funny if you ask me ... playing doubles with five people... 

girl: well we often play like that... jocasta plays on the side receiving service... 

sergeant: oh yes? 

girl: yes. it helps to speed the game up and make it a lot faster, and it means jocasta isn't left out. 

sergeant: look, are you asking me to believe that the five of you was playing doubles, when on the very next court there was a blancmange playing by itself?. 

girl: that's right, yes. 

sergeant: well answer me this then - why didn't jocasta play the blancmange at singles, while you and sandra and alec and david had a proper game of doubles with four people? 

girl: because jocasta always plays with us. she's a friend of ours. 

sergeant: call that friendship? messing up a perfectly good game of doubles? 

girl: it's not messing it up, officer, we like to play with five. 

sergeant: look it's 

sergeant: your 

sergeant: affair if you want to play with five people ... but don't go calling it doubles. look at wimbledon, right? if fred stolle and tony roche played charlie pasarell and cliff drysdale and peaches bartcowitz... they wouldn't go calling it doubles. 

girl: but what about the blancmange? 

sergeant: that could play ann haydon-jones and her husband pip. 

mrs podgorny: oh, a blancmange gave you an order for 48,000,000 kilts? 

angus: aye! 

mrs podgorny: and you 

mrs podgorny: believed 

mrs podgorny: it? 

angus: aye, i did. 

mrs podgorny: och, you're a stupid man, angus podgorny. 

angus: i believe it. 

mrs podgorny: even if it's from a blancmange? 

angus: och, woman, if a blancmange is prepared to come 2,200,000 light years to purchase a kilt, they must be fairly keen on kilts. so cease yer prattling woman and get sewing. this could be the biggest breakthrough in kilts since the provost of edinburgh sat on a spike. mary, we'll be rich! we'll be rich! 

mrs podgorny: oh, but angus... he hasna given you an earnest of his good faith! 

angus: ah mebbe not but he has gi' me this... 

mrs podgorny: what is it now? 

angus: an entry form for the british open tennis championships at wimbledon toon ... signed and seconded. 

mrs podgorny: och, but angus, ye ken full well that scots folk dinna know how to play the tennis to save their lives. 

angus: aye, but i must go though dear, i dinna want to seem ungrateful. 

mrs podgorny: ach! angus, i wilna let you make a fool o'yourself. 

angus: but i must. 

mrs podgorny: och, no you'll not ... 

angus: oh, mary... 

angus: oh, oh, mary! look out! look out! 

mrs podgorny: urrgh. it's the blancmange. 

policeman: oh, now this is where mr podgorny could have saved his wife's life. if he'd gone to the police and told them that he'd been approached by unearthly beings from the galaxy of andromeda, we'd have sent a man round to investigate. as it was he did a deal with a blancmange, and the blancmange ate his wife. so if you're going out, or going on holiday, or anything strange happens involving other galaxies, just nip round to your local police station, and tell the sergeant on duty - or his wife - of your suspicions. and the same goes for dogs. so i'm sorry to have interrupted your exciting science fiction story ... but, then, crime's our business you know. so carry on viewing, and my thanks to the bbc for allowing me to have this little chat with you. goodnight. god bless, look after yourselves. 

detective: do sit down, mr podgorny... i... i ... think what's happened is ... terribly ... terribly... funny .... tragic. but you must understand that we have to catch the creature that ate your wife, and if you could help us answer a few questions, we may be able to help save a few lives. i know this is the way your wife would have wanted it. 

angus: aye ... i'll ... do ... my best, sergeant. 

detective: detective inspector! 

angus: er, detective inspector. 

detective: now then. the facts are these. you received an order for 48,000,000 kilts from a blancmange from the planet skyron in the galaxy of andromeda ... you'd just shown your wife an entry form for wimbledon, which you'd filled in... when you turned round and saw her legs disappearing into a blancmange. is that correct? 

angus: yes, sir. 

detective: are you mad? 

angus: no, sir. 

detective: well that's a relief. 'cos if you were, your story would be less plausible. 

detective: now then, do you recognize this? 

angus: oh yes. that's the one that ate my mary! 

detective: good. his name's riley... jack riley... he's that most rare of criminals ... a blancmange impersonator and cannibal. 

angus: but what about the 48,000,000 kilts and the galaxy of andromeda? 

detective: i'm afraid that's just one of his stories. you must understand that a blancmange impersonator and cannibal has to use some pretty clever stories to allay suspicion. 

angus: then you mean... 

detective: yes. 

angus: but... 

detective: how? 

angus: yes. 

detective: well... 

angus: not? 

detective: i'm afraid so. 

angus: why? 

detective: who knows? 

angus: do you think? 

detective: could be. 

detective: i know. 

angus: she was... 

detective: good lord what's that? 

detective: eh riley? riley! riley! it's not riley! 

detective: it's an extra-terrestial being! agggh! 

charles: so, everyone in england is being turned into scotsmen, right? 

she: yes. 

charles: now, which is the worst tennis-playing nation in the world? 

she: er ... australia. 

charles: no. try again. 

she: australia? 

charles: no... try again but say a different place. 

she: oh, i thought you meant i'd said it badly. 

charles: no, course you didn't say it badly. now hurry. 

she: er, czechoslovakia. 

charles: no! scotland! 

she: of course. 

charles: now ... now these blancmanges, apart from the one that killed mrs podgorny have all appeared in which london suburb? 

she: finchley? 

charles: no. wimbledon ... now do you begin to see the pattern? with what sport is wimbledon commonly associated? 

norman hackforth: for viewers at home, the answer is coming up on your screens. those of you who wish to play it the hard way, stand upside down with your head in a bucket of piranha fish. here is the question once again. 

charles: with what sport is wimbledon commonly associated? 

none: superimposed caption: 'tennis' 

she: cricket. 

charles: no. 

she: pelote? 

charles: no. wimbledon is most commonly associated with tennis. 

she: of course! now i see! 

charles: yes, it all falls into place! 

she: the blancmangcs are really australians trying to get the rights of the pelota rules from the czech publishers! 

charles: no ... not quite ... but, er, just look in here. 

charles: yes. so these blancmanges, blancmange-shaped creatures come from the planet skyron in the galaxy of andromeda. they order 48,000,000 kilts from a scottish menswear shop ... turn the population of england into scotsmen (well known as the worst tennis-playing nation on earth) thus leaving england empty 

charles: during wimbledon fortnight 

charles: practising 

charles: . this can only mean one thing! 

voice over: 'they mean to win wimbledon' 

charles: they mean to 

charles: win wimbledon 

charles: ! 

<scene blancmanges playing tennis>

commentator: well, here at wimbledon, it's been a most extraordinary week's tennis. the blancmanges have swept the board, winning match after match. here are just a few of the results: billie-jean king eaten in straight sets, laver smothered whole after winning the first set, and poncho gonzales, serving as well as i've never seen him, with some superb volleys and decisive return volleys off the back hand, was sucked through the net at match point and swallowed whole in just under two minutes. and so, here on the final day, there seems to be no players left to challenge the blancmanges. and this could be their undoing, dan: as the rules of wimbledon state quite clearly that there must be at least one human being concerned in the final. 

commentator: there is a human with it. it's angus podgorny! the plucky little scottish tailor ... upon whom everything depends. and so it's podgorny versus blancmange in this first ever intergalactic wimbledon! 

commentator's voice: and it's blancmange to serve and it's a good one. 

blancmange umpire: blurb blurble blurb. 

voice over: fifteen love. 

commentator's voice: and podgorny fails to even hit the ball ... but this is no surprise as he hasn't hit the ball once throughout this match. so it's 72 match points to the blancmange now... podgorny prepares to serve again. 

commentator's voice: this is indeed a grim day for the human race, dan. 

commentator's voice: but what's this? two spectators have rushed onto the pitch with spoons and forks... what are they going to do? 

charles: they mean to eat the blancmange. 

commentator's voice: and they're eating the blancmange ... yes! the blancmange is leaving the court... it's abandoning the game! this is fantastic! 

american voice: yes it was mr and mrs samuel brainsample, who, after only a brief and misleadling appearance in the early part of the film, returned to save the earth ... but why? 

mr brainsample: oh, well you see we love blancmanges. my wife makes them. 

american voice: she makes blancmanages 

american voice: that 

american voice: size? 

mr brainsample: oh, yes. you see we're from the planet skyron in the galaxy of andromeda, and they're all that size there. we tried to tell you at the beginning of the film but you just panned off us. 

american voice: so the world was saved! and angus podgorny became the first scotsman to win wimbledon... fifteen years later. 

none: roller caption: 'you're no fun anymore'...(credits) 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 'monty python's flying circus' 

pepperpot: speaking as a public opinion poll, i've had enough of the permissive society. 

man in dirty raincoat: i havn't had enough of the permissive society. 

policeman: i would not appear in a frontal nude scene unless it was valid. 

<scene army protection racket>

voice over: in 1943, a group of british army officers working deep behind enemy lines, carried out one of the most dangerous and heroic raids in the history of warfare. but that's as maybe. and now . . . 

colonel: come in, what do you want? 

watkins: i'd like to leave the army please, sir. 

colonel: good heavens man, why? 

watkins: it's dangerous. 

colonel: what? 

watkins: there are people with guns out there, sir. 

watkins: real guns, sir. not toy ones, sir. proper ones, sir. they've all got 'em. all of 'em, sir. and some of 'em have got tanks. 

colonel: watkins, they 

colonel: are 

colonel: on our side. 

watkins: and grenades, sir. and machine guns, sir. so i'd like to leave, sir, before i get killed, please. 

colonel: watkins, you've only been in the army a day. 

watkins: i know sir but people get killed, properly dead, sir, no barley cross fingers, sir. a bloke was telling me, if you're in the army and there's a war you have to go and fight. 

colonel: that's true. 

watkins: well i mean, blimey, i mean if it was a big war somebody could be hurt. 

colonel: watkins why did you 

colonel: join 

colonel: the army? 

watkins: for the water-skiing and for the travel, sir. and 

watkins: not 

watkins: for the killing, sir. i asked them to put it on my form, sir - no killing. 

colonel: watkins are you a pacifist? 

watkins: no sir, i'm not a pacifist, sir. i'm a coward. 

colonel: that's a very silly line. sit down. 

watkins: yes sir. silly, sir. 

colonel: awfully bad. 

sergeant: two civilian gentlemen to see you ... sir! 

colonel: show them in please, sergeant. 

sergeant: mr dino vercotti and mr luigi vercotti. 

dino: good morning, colonel. 

colonel: good morning gentlemen. now what can i do for you. 

luigi: you've ... you've got a nice army base here, colonel. 

colonel: yes. 

luigi: we wouldn't want anything to happen to it. 

dino: no, what my brother means is it would be a shame if... 

colonel: oh. 

dino: oh sorry, colonel. 

colonel: well don't worry about that. but please do sit down. 

luigi: no, we prefer to stand, thank you, colonel. 

colonel: all right. all right. but what do you want? 

dino: what do we want, ha ha ha. 

luigi: ha ha ha, very good, colonel. 

dino: the colonel's a joker, luigi. 

luigi: explain it to the colonel, dino. 

dino: how many tanks you got, colonel? 

colonel: about five hundred altogether. 

luigi: five hundred! hey! 

dino: you ought to be careful, colonel. 

colonel: we are careful, extremely careful. 

dino: 'cos things 

dino: break 

dino: , don't they? 

colonel: break? 

luigi: well everything breaks, don't it colonel. 

luigi: oh dear. 

dino: oh see my brother's clumsy colonel, and when he gets unhappy he breaks things. like say, he don't feel the army's playing fair by him, he may start breaking things, colonel. 

colonel: what is all this about? 

luigi: how many men you got here, colonel? 

colonel: oh, er ... seven thousand infantry, six hundred artillery, and er, two divisions of paratroops. 

luigi: paratroops, dino. 

dino: be a shame if someone was to set fire to 

dino: them 

dino: . 

colonel: set 

colonel: fire 

colonel: to them? 

luigi: fires happen, colonel. 

dino: things burn. 

colonel: look, what is all this about? 

dino: my brother and i have got a little proposition for you colonel. 

luigi: could save you a lot of bother. 

dino: i mean you're doing all right here aren't you, colonel. 

luigi: well suppose some of your tanks was to get broken and troops started getting lost, er, fights started breaking out during general inspection, like. 

dino: it wouldn't be good for business would it, colonel? 

colonel: are you threatening me? 

dino: oh, no, no, no. 

luigi: whatever made you think that, colonel? 

dino: the colonel doesn't think we're nice people, luigi. 

luigi: we're your buddies, colonel. 

dino: we want to look after you. 

colonel: look after me? 

luigi: we can guarantee you that not a single armoured division will get done over for fifteen bob a week. 

colonel: no, no, no. 

luigi: twelve and six. 

luigi: eight and six ... five bob... 

colonel: no, no this is silly. 

dino: what's silly? 

colonel: no, the whole premise is silly and it's very badly written. i'm the senior officer here and i haven't had a funny line yet. so i'm stopping it. 

dino: you can't do that! 

colonel: i've done it. the sketch is over. 

watkins: i want to leave the army please sir, it's dangerous. 

colonel: look, i stopped 

colonel: your 

colonel: that's better. 

luigi: it's only 'cos you couldn't think of a punch line. 

colonel: not true, not true. it's time for the cartoon. cue telecine, ten, nine, eight... 

dino: the general public's not going to understand this, are they? 

colonel: shut up you eyeties! 

<scene vox pops on full frontal nudity>

man: full frontal nudity - never. what do you think, barbara? 

barbara: oh, no, no, no...unless it was artistically valid, of course. 

stockbroker: full frontal nudity? yes i'd do it, if it was valid. or if the money was valid, and if it were a very small part. 

<scene art critic - the place of the nude>

art critic: good evening. i'd like to talk to you tonight about the place of the nude in my bed ... um ... in the history of my bed ... of art, of 

art critic: art 

art critic: oh hello there father, er confessor, professor, your honour, your grace ... 

girl: i'm not your grace, i'm your elsie. 

art critic: what a terrible joke! 

groom: we want to buy a bed, please. 

mr lambert: og, certainly, i'll, i'll get someone to help you. 

mr lambert: mr verity! 

mr verity: can i help you, sir? 

groom: er yes. we'd like to buy a bed...a double bed...about fifty pounds? 

verity: oh no, i'm afraid not, sir. our cheapest bed is eight hundred pounds, sir. 

groom: eight hundred pounds! 

lambert: or, er, perhaps i should have explained. mr verity does tend to exaggerate, so every figure he gives you will be ten times too high. otherwise he's perfectly all right, perfectly ha, ha, ha. 

groom: oh i see. i see. 

groom: so your cheapest bed then is eighty pounds? 

verity: eight hundred pounds, yes, sir. 

groom: and how wide is it? 

verity: er, the width is, er, sixty feet wide. 

groom: oh... 

groom: six foot wide, eh. and the length? 

verity: the length is ... er ... 

verity: lambert! what is the length of the comfydown majorette? 

lambert: er, two foot long. 

groom: two foot long? 

verity: ah yes, you have to remember of course, to multiply everything mr lambert says by three. er, it's nothing he can help, you understand. apart from that he's perfectly all right. 

groom: i see, i'm sorry. 

verity: but it does mean that when he says a bed is two foot wide, it is in fact sixty foot wide. 

groom: oh, yes i see... 

verity: and that's not counting the mattress. 

groom: oh, how much is that? 

verity: er, mr lambert will be able to help you there. 

verity: lambert! will you show these twenty good people the, er, dog kennels, please? 

lambert: mm? certainly. 

groom: dog kennel? no, no, no, mattresses, mattresses! 

verity: oh no, no you have to say dog kennel to mr lambert because if you say mattress he puts a bag over his head. i should have explained. apart from that he's really all right. 

groom: ah, hum, er we'd like to see the dog kennels please. 

lambert: dog kennels? 

groom: yes, we want to see the dog kennels. 

lambert: ah yes, well that's the pets' department. second floor. 

groom: oh, no, no, we want to see the 

groom: dog kennels 

groom: . 

lambert: yes, pets department second floor. 

groom: no, we don't really want to see dog kennels only your colleague said we ought to... 

lambert: oh dear, what's he been telling you now? 

groom: well, he said we should say dog kennels instead of mattress. 

groom: oh dear. hello? 

verity: did you say mattress? 

groom: well, a little yes. 

verity: i did 

verity: ask 

verity: 'and did those feet in ancient times, walk upon england's mountains green...' 

manager: oh dear, did somebody say mattress to mr lambert? 

verity: ! (exits) 

groom: oh, no, no, no. er,, we'd like to see, see the dog kennels please? 

lambert: yes, second floor. 

groom: no, no, look these 

groom: dog kennels here, see? 

lambert: mattresses? 

groom: oh 

groom: ...yes. 

lambert: well, if you meant mattress, why dodn't you 

lambert: say 

lambert: a mattress? i mean, it's very confusing for me if you go and say dog kennels when you mean mattress. why not just say mattress? 

groom: well, i mean you put a bag over your head last time i said mattress. 

assistant: did somebody say mattress to mr lambert? 

verity: twice. 

assistant: hey, everybody, somebody said mattress to mr lambert, twice. 

verity: it's not working. we need more! 

lambert: now, er, can i help you? 

bride: we want a mattress. 

bride: but it's my only line! 

all: well, you didn't have to say it. 

african native: full frontal nudity - not in this part of esher. 

chartered accountant: i would only perform in a scene in which there was full frontal nudity. 

colonel: now, i've noticed a tendency for this programme to get rather silly. now i do my best to keep things moving along, but i'm not having things getting silly. those two last sketches i did got very silly indeed, and that last one about the bed was even sillier. now, nobody likes a good laugh more than i do...except perhaps my wife and some of her friends...oh yes and captain johnston. come to think of it most people likes a good laugh more than i do. but that's beside the point. now, let's have a good clean healthy outdoor sketch. get some air into your lungs. ten, nine, eight and all that. 

<scene hermits>

first hermit: hello, are you a hermit by any chance? 

second hermit: yes that's right. are you a hermit? 

first hermit: yes, i certainly am. 

second hermit: well i never. what are you getting away from? 

first hermit: oh you know, the usual - people, chat, gossip, you know. 

second hermit: oh i certainly do - it was the same with me. i mean there comes a time when you realize there's no good frittering your life away in idleness and trivial chit-chat. where's your cave? 

first hermit: oh, up the goat track, first on the left. 

second hermit: oh they're very nice up there, aren't they? 

first hermit: yes they are, i've got a beauty. 

second hermit: a bit drafty though, aren't they? 

first hermit: no, we've had ours insulated. 

second hermit: oh yes. 

first hermit: yes, i used birds' nests, moss and oak leaves round the outside. 

second hermit: oh, sounds marvellous. 

first hermit: oh it's a treat, it really is, 'cos otherwise those stone caves can be so grim. 

second hermit: yes they really can be, can't they? they really can. 

first hermit: oh yes. 

third hermit: morning frank. 

second hermit: morning norman. talking of moss, er you know mr robinson? 

first hermit: with the, er, green loin cloth? 

second hermit: er no, that's mr seagrave. mr robinson's the hermit who lodges with mr seagrave. 

first hermit: oh i see, yes. 

second hermit: yes well he's put me onto wattles. 

first hermit: really? 

second hermit: yes. swears by them. yes. 

fourth hermit: morning frank. 

second hermit: morning lionel. well he says that moss tends to fall off the cave walls during cold weather. you know you might get a really bad spell and half the moss drops off the cave wall, leaving you cold. 

first hermit: oh well, mr robinson's cave's never been exactly nirvana has it? 

second hermit: well, quite, that's what i mean. anyway, mr rogers, he's the, er, hermit... 

first hermit: ... on the end. 

second hermit: . .. up at the top, yes. well he tried wattles and he came out in a rash. 

second hermit: yes, and there's me with half a wall wattled, i mean what'll i do? 

first hermit: well why don't you try birds nests like i've done? or else, dead bracken. 

fifth hermit: frank! 

second hermit: yes han. 

fifth hermit: can i borrow your goat? 

second hermit: er, yes that'll be all right. oh leave me a pint for breakfast will you? ... 

second hermit: you see, you know that is the trouble with living half way up a cliff - you feel so cut off. you know it takes me two hours every morning to get out onto the moors, collect my berries, chastise myself, and two hours back in the evening. 

first hermit: still there's one thing about being a hermit, at least you meet people. 

second hermit: oh yes, i wouldn't go back to public relations. 

first hermit: oh well, bye for now frank, must toddle. 

colonel: right, you two hermits, stop that sketch. i think it's silly. 

second hermit: what? 

colonel: it's silly. 

second hermit: what do you mean, you can't stop it - it's on film. 

colonel: that doesn't make any difference to the viewer at home, does it? come on, get out. out. come on out, all of you. get off, go on, all of you. go on, move, move. go on, get out. come on, get out, move, move. 

<scene dead parrot>

none: animation: 

praline: hello, i wish to register a complaint...hello? miss? 

shopkeeper: what do you mean, miss? 

praline: oh i'm sorry, i have a cold. i wish to make a complaint! 

shopkeeper: sorry, we're closing for lunch. 

praline: never mind that, my lad. i wish to complain about this parrot what i purchased not half an hour ago from this very boutique. 

shopkeeper: oh yes, the, the norwegian blue. what's wrong with it? 

praline: i'll tell you what's wrong with it, my lad. it's dead, that's what's wrong with it! 

shopkeeper: no, no, it's resting, look! 

praline: look my lad, i know a dead parrot when i see one, and i'm looking at one right now. 

shopkeeper: no no sir. it's not dead. it's resting! 

praline: resting? 

shopkeeper: yeah, remarkable bird, the norwegian blue, beautiful plumage, innit? 

praline: the plumage don't enter into it - it's stone dead. 

shopkeeper: no, no - it's just resting! 

praline: all right then, if it's restin', i'll wake him up! 

praline: hello polly! i've got a nice cuttlefish for you when you wake up, polly parrot! 

shopkeeper: there, it moved! 

praline: no, he didn't. that was you pushing the cage! 

shopkeeper: i did not. 

praline: yes, you did! 

praline: now that's what i call a dead parrot. 

shopkeeper: no, no. it's stunned. 

praline: look my lad, i've had just about enough of this. that parrot is definitely deceased. and when i bought it not half an hour ago, you assured me that its lack of movement was due to it being tired and shagged out after a long squawk. 

shopkeeper: it's probably pining for the fjords. 

praline: pining for the fjords, what kind of talk is that? look, why did it fall flat on its back the moment i got it home? 

shopkeeper: the norwegian blue prefers kipping on it's back! beautiful bird, lovely plumage! 

praline: look, i took the liberty of examining that parrot, and i discovered the only reason that it had been sitting on its perch in the first place was that it had been nailed there. 

shopkeeper: well of course it was nailed there. otherwise it would muscle up to those bars and voom. 

praline: look matey 

praline: this parrot wouldn't voom if you put four thousand volts through it! it's bleedin' demised! 

shopkeeper: it's not, it's pining! 

praline: it's not pining, it's passed on. this parrot is no more! it has ceased to be. it's expired and gone to meet its maker.this is a late parrot. it's a stiff. bereft of life, it rests in peace. if you hadn't nailed it to the perch it would be pushing up the daisies. it's rung down the curtain and joined the choir invisible. this is an ex-parrot. 

shopkeeper: well, i'd better replace it, then. 

praline: if you want to get anything done in this country you've got to complain till you're blue in the mouth. 

shopkeeper: sorry guv, we're right out of parrots. 

praline: i see. i see. i get the picture. 

shopkeeper: i got a slug. 

praline: does it talk? 

shopkeeper: not really, no. 

praline: well, it's scarcely a replacement, then is it? 

shopkeeper: listen, i'll tell you what, 

shopkeeper: tell you what, if you go to my brother's pet shop in bolton he'll replace your parrot for you. 

praline: bolton eh? 

shopkeeper: yeah. 

praline: all right. 

praline: er, excuse me. this is bolton, is it? 

shopkeeper: no, no it's, er, ipswich. 

praline: i wish to make a complaint. 

porter: i don't have to do this, you know. 

praline: i beg your pardon. 

porter: i'm a qualified brain surgeon. i only do this because i like being my own boss. 

praline: er, excuse me, this is irrelevant, isn't it. 

porter: oh yeah, it's not easy to pad these out to thirty minutes. 

praline: well i wish to make a complaint. i got on the bolton train and found myself deposited here in ipswich. 

porter: no, this is bolton. 

praline: the pet shop owner's brother was lying. 

porter: well you can't blame british rail for that. 

praline: if this is bolton, i shall return to the pet shop. 

praline: i understand that this 

praline: is 

praline: bolton. 

shopkeeper: yes. 

praline: well, you told me it was ipswich. 

shopkeeper: it was a pun. 

praline: a pun? 

shopkeeper: no, no, not a pun, no. what's the other thing which reads the same backwards as forwards? 

praline: a palindrome? 

shopkeeper: yes, yes. 

praline: it's not a palindrome. the palindrome of bolton would be notlob. it don't work. 

shopkeeper: look, what do you want. 

praline: no i'm sorry, i'm not prepared to pursue my line of enquiry any further as i think this is getting too silly. 

colonel: quite agree. quite agree. silly. silly...silly. right get on with it. get on with it. 

<scene the flasher>

announcer: i'm sorry...and now frontal nudity. 

announcer: oh, oh i'm sorry. i thought the film was longer. 

announcer: ah. now notlob, er, bolton. 

<scene hell's grannies>

voice over: this is a frightened city. over these houses, over these streets hangs a pall of fear. fear of a new kind of violence which is terrorizing the city. yes, gangs of old ladies attacking defenseless, fit young men. 

first young man: well they come up to you, like, and push you - shove you off the pavement, like. there's usually four or five of them. 

second young man: yeah, this used to be a nice neighbourhood before the old ladies started moving in. nowadays some of us daren't even go down to the shops. 

third young man: well mr johnson's son kevin, he don't go out any more. he comes back from wrestling and locks himself in his room. 

voice over: what are they in it for, these old hoodlums, these layabouts in lace? 

voice over: favourite targets for the old ladies are telephone kiosks. 

policeman: we have a lot of trouble with these oldies. pension day's the worst - they go mad. as soon as they get their hands on their money they blow it all on milk, bread, tea, tin of meat for the cat. 

cinema manager: yes, well of course they come here for the two o'clock matinee, all the old bags out in there, especially if it's something like 'the sound of music'. we get seats ripped up, hearing aids broken, all that sort of thing. 

reporter: the whole problem of these senile delinquents lies in their complete rejection of the values of contemporary society. they've seen their children grow up and become accountants, stockbrokers and even sociologists, and they begin to wonder if it is all really... 

reporter: arggh! 

fourth young man: oh well we sometimes feel we're to blame in some way for what our gran's become. i mean she used to be happy here until she, she started on the crochet. 

reporter: crochet? 

fourth young man: yeah. now she can't do without it. twenty balls of wool a day, sometimes. if she can't get the wool she gets violent. what can we do about it? 

voice over: but this is not just an old ladies' town. there are other equally dangerous gangs - such as the baby snatchers. 

wife: i just left my husband out here while i went in to do some shopping and i came back and he was gone. he was only forty-seven. 

voice over: and on the road too, vicious gangs of keep left signs. 

colonel: right, right, stop it. this film's got silly. started off with a nice little idea about grannies attacking young men, but now it's got silly. this man's hair is too long for a vicar too. these signs are pretty badly made. right, now for a complete change of mood. 

man in dirty raincoat: i've heard of unisex but i've never had it. 

voice over: david hemmings appeared by permission of the national forestry commission. 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 'monty python's flying circus' 

<scene llamas>

man: the llama is a quadruped which lives in the big rivers like the amazon. it has two ears, a heart, a forehead, and a beak for eating honey. but it is provided with fins for swimming. 

guitarist & dancer: llamas are larger than frogs. 

man: llamas are dangerous, so if you see one where people are swimming, you shout... 

guitarist & dancer: look out, there are llamas! 

<scene a man with a tape recorder up his nose>

announcer: and now for something completely different - a man with a tape recorder up his nose. 

<scene kilimanjaro expedition (double vision)>

voice over: and now for something completely different. the office of sir george head, obe. 

none: large study with maps and photographs on the wall and a large desk at which sits sir george head. 

sir: next please. 

sir: one at a time please. 

bob: there is only me, sir. 

sir: so there is. take a . . . 

bob: seat? 

sir: seat! take a seat. so! 

bob: me, sir? 

sir: yes. 

bob: yes, i'd very much like to, sir. 

sir: jolly good, jolly good. 

sir: and how about you? 

sir: now let me fill you in. i'm leading this expedition and we're going to climb both peaks of mount kilimanjaro. 

bob: i thought there was only one peak, sir. 

sir: well, that'll save a bit of time. well done. now the object of this expedition is to see if we can find any traces of last year's expedition. 

bob: last year's expedition? 

sir: yes, my brother was leading that, they were going to build a bridge between the two peaks, 

sir: my idea i'm afraid. now, i ought to tell you that i have practically everyone i need for this expedition ... so what special qualifications do you have? 

bob: well, sir... 

sir: yes, you first. 

sir: carry on. 

bob: well i'm a fully qualified mountaineer. 

sir: mountaineer? mountaineer 

sir: where the devil are they, mound, mount... mountain... a mountaineer: 'two men skilled in climbing mountains'. jolly good, well you're in. congratulations, both of you. well, er, what are your names? 

bob: arthur wilson. 

sir: arthur wilson, right well look, i'll call you 

sir: arthur wilson two, just to avoid confusion. 

bob: are you actually leading this expedition sir? 

sir: yes, we are leading this expedition to africa. 

bob: and what routes will you both be taking? 

sir: good questions... shall i? well we'll be leaving on january 22nd and taking the following routes. 

sir: the a23s through purleys down on the main roads near purbrights avoiding leatherheads and then taking the a231s entering rottingdeans from the north. from rottingdeans we go through africa to nairobis. we take the south road out of nairobis for about twelve miles and then ask. 

bob: does anyone speak swahili, sir? 

sir: oh, yes i think most of them do down there. 

bob: does anyone in our party speak swahili sir? 

sir: oh, well matron's got a smattering. 

bob: apart from the two matrons ... 

sir: good god, i'd forgotten about her. 

bob: apart from them, who else is coming on the expedition, sir? 

sir: well we've got the arthur brown twins, two botanists called machin, the william johnston brothers ... 

bob: two of them? 

sir: no four of them, a pair of identical twins ... and a couple of the ken spinoza quads - the other two pulled out. and of course you two. 

bob: and none of these are mountaineers? 

sir: well you two are, and we've got a brace of guides called jimmy blenkinsop... because kilimanjaro is a pretty tricky climb you know, most of it's up until you reach the very very top, and then it tends to slope away rather sharply. but jimmy's put his heads together and worked out a way up. 

sir: i don't believe you've met. jimmy blenkinsop - arthur wilson, arthur wilson -jimmy blenkinsop... arthur wilson two -james blenkinsop one, james blenkinsop one - arthur wilson two. carry on jimmies. 

sir: he'll be leading the first assault. 

bob: well i'm afraid i shan't be coming on your expedition sir, as i've absolutely no confidence in anyone involved in it. 

sir: oh dear. 

sir: well how about you? 

bob: well i'm game, sir. 

sir: so are we. 

<scene a man with a tape recorder up his brother's nose>

announcers: and now for aomething completely different - a man with a tape recorder up his brother's nose. 

voice over: 'and now in stereo...' 

<scene homicidal barber>

none: an animated sequence then leads us to a gents suburban hairdressing salon. a customer comes in. the barber is standing in a white coat washing his hands at a basin. 

customer: morning. 

barber: ah ... good morning sir, good morning. i'll be with you in a minute. 

barber: how... how would you like it, sir? 

customer: just short back and sides please. 

barber: how do you do that? 

customer: well it's just... ordinary short back and sides. 

barber: it's not a ... razor cut? 

barber: it's just a scissors. 

customer: yes... 

barber: you wouldn't rather just have it combed, would you sir? 

customer: i beg your pardon? 

barber: you wouldn't rather forget all about it? 

customer: no, no, no, i want it cut. 

barber: cut, cut, cut, blood, spurt, artery, murder, hitchcock, psycho... right sir ... well ... 

barber: i'll just get everything ready. in the meanwhile perhaps you could fill in one of these. 

customer: all right, fine, yes. 

customer: excuse me, er... 

barber: what? 

customer: where it says: 'next of kin' shall i put 'mother'? 

barber: yes, yes ... yes. 

customer: right there we are. 

barber: thank you. 

barber: right! 

barber: ha, ha, ha ... there, i've finished. 

customer: what? 

barber: i've finished cutting... cutting... cutting your hair. it's all done, 

customer: you haven't started cutting it! 

barber: i have! i did it very quickly... your honour... 

barber: sir 

barber: ... sir... 

customer: look here old fellow, i know when a chap's cut my hair and when he hasn't. so will you please stop fooling around and get on with it. 

barber: yes, yes, i will, i'm going to cut your hair, sir. i'm going to start cutting your hair, sir, start cutting now! 

tape recorder: nice day, sir, 

customer: yes, flowers could do with a drop of rain though, eh? 

tape recorder: did you see the match last night, sir? 

customer: yes. good game. i thought. 

tape recorder: i thought hurst played well sir. 

tape recorder: i thought hurst played well. 

customer: oh yes ... yes ... he was the only one who did though. 

tape recorder: can you put your head down a little, sir? 

customer: sorry, sorry. 

tape recorder: i prefer to watch palace nowadays. 

tape recorder: oh! sorry! was that your ear? 

customer: no no ... i didn't feel a thing. 

customer: look, what's going on? 

tape recorder: yes, it's a nice spot, isn't it. 

customer: look, i came here for a haircut! 

barber: it looks very nice sir. 

customer: it's exactly the same as when i first came in. 

tape recorder: right, that's the lot then. 

<scene lumberjack song>

barber: all right ... i confess i haven't cut your hair ... i hate cutting hair. i have this terrible un-un-uncontrollable fear whenever i see hair. when i was a kid i used to hate the sight of hair being cut. my mother said i was a fool. she said the only way to cure it was to become a barber. so i spent five ghastly years at the hairdressers' training centre at totnes. can you imagine what it's like cutting the 

barber: same head 

barber: five 

barber: we'd sing ... sing ... sing. 

barber: i cut down trees, i eat my lunch, 

barber: i go to the lavatory. 

barber: on wednesdays i go shopping, 

barber: and have buttered scones for tea. 

mounties choir: he cuts down trees, he eats his lunch, 

mounties choir: he goes to the lavatory. 

mounties choir: on wednesdays he goes shopping, 

mounties choir: and have buttered scones for tea. 

mounties choir: he's a lumberjack, and he's ok, 

mounties choir: he sleeps all night and he works all day. 

barber: i cut down trees, i skip and jump, 

barber: i like to press wild flowers. 

barber: i put on women's clothing, 

barber: and hang around in bars. 

mounties choir: he cuts down trees, he skips and jumps, 

mounties choir: he likes to press wild flowers. 

mounties choir: he puts on women's clothing 

mounties choir: and hangs around.... in bars??????? 

barber: i chop down trees, i wear high heels, 

barber: suspenders and a bra. 

barber: i wish i'd been a girlie 

barber: just like my dear mama. 

mounties choir: he cuts down trees, he wears high heels 

barber: ...just like my dear mama. 

girl: oh bevis! and i thought you were so rugged. 

voice over: dear sir, i wish to complain in the strongest possible terms about the song which you have just broadcast, about the lumberjack who wears women's clothes. many of my best friends are lumberjacks and only a few of them are transvestites. yours faithfully, brigadier sir charles arthur strong (mrs.) ps i have never kissed the editor of the radio times. 

pepperpot: well i object to all this sex on the television. i mean i keep falling off. 

<scene gumby crooner>

gumby: well i think television's killed real entertainment. in the old days we used to make our own fun. at christmas parties i used to strike myself on the head repeatedly with blunt instruments while crooning. 

gumby: others find peace of mind...' 

<scene the refreshment room at bletchley>

compère: good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the refreshment room here at bletchley. 

compère: someone whose boots i would gladly lick clean until holes wore through my tongue, a man who is so totally and utterly wonderful, that i would rather be sealed in a pit of my own filth, than dare tread on the same stage with him.ladies and gentlemen, the incomparably superior human being, harry fink! 

voice off: he can't come! 

compère: never mind, it's not all it's cracked up to be. ladies and gentlemen, we give you ken buddha and his inflatable knees. 

compère: ken buddha, a smile, two bangs and a religion. now ladies and gentlemen, for your further entertainment, brian islam and brucie. 

barber: so anyway, i became a barber. 

customer: poor chap. 

barber: yes, pity really, i always preferred the outdoor life. hunting, shooting, fishing. getting out there with a gun, slaughtering a few of god's creatures - that was the life. charging about the moorland, blasting their heads off. 

<scene hunting film>

floor manager: i'm sorry, we don't need you this week. 

voice: and now for something completely different. 

<scene the visitors>

victor: would you mind terribly if i hold your hand? 

iris: oh no, no, not at all. 

victor: oh iris, you're so very beautiful. 

iris: oh, do you really mean that? 

victor: i do, i do, i do. i think... i'm beginning to fall in love with you. 

iris: oh victor. 

victor: it's silly isn't it? 

iris: no, no, not at all dear sweet victor. 

victor: no i didn't mean that. only just us being so close together for so many months in the soft-toy department and yet never daring to... 

iris: oh, oh victor. 

victor: oh iris. 

victor: who can that be? 

iris: oh, well you try and get rid of them. 

victor: yes i will, i will. 

arthur: hello! 

victor: hello. 

arthur: remember me? 

victor: no i'm... 

arthur: in the pub. the tall thin one with the moustache, remember? about three years ago? 

victor: no, i don't i'm afraid. 

arthur: oh, blimey, it's dark in here, 

arthur: that's better. only you said we must have a drink together sometime, so i thought i'd take you up on it as the film society meeting was cancelled this evening. 

victor: look, to be frank, it is a little awkward this evening. 

arthur: hello, i'm arthur. arthur name. name by name but not by nature. i always say that, don't i vicky boy? 

victor: really... 

arthur: is that your wife? 

victor: er, no, actually. 

arthur: oh, i get the picture. eh? well don't worry about me vicky boy, i know all about one-night stands. 

victor: i beg your pardon? 

arthur: mind if i change the record? 

victor: look, look, we put that on. 

arthur: here's a good one, i heard it in a pub. what's brown, what's brown and sounds like a bell? 

arthur: what's brown and sounds like a bell? dung! ha, ha, ha, that's a good one. i like that one, i won't keep you long. 

arthur: that's better, now don't worry about me. i'll wait here till you've finished. 

victor: who the hell... 

arthur: i'll get it. it'll be friends of mine. i took the liberty of inviting them along. 

victor: look, we were hoping to have a quiet evening on our own. 

arthur: oh, they won't mind. they're very broad-minded. hello! 

mr equator: good evening. my name is equator, mr equator equator. like round the middle of the earth, only with an l. 

mr equator: this is my wife audrey, she smells a bit but she has a heart of gold. 

audrey: hello, ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha... 

victor: there must have been some kind of misunderstanding, because this is not the... 

mr equator: who's that then? 

victor: what? 

mr equator: who's the bird? 

victor: i'm... 

mr equator: you got a nice pair there haven't you love. 

mr equator: shut up you silly bitch, it was only a bit of fun. 

victor: now look here ... 

mr equator: big gin please. 

arthur: i'll get it. 

victor: look, leave those drinks alone. 

audrey: and three tins of beans for me please. 

mr equator: i told you to lay off the beans, you whore! 

audrey: i only want three cans. 

mr equator: button your lip you rat-bag. 

audrey: ha, ha, ha, ha... 

mr equator: it was rather witty, wasn't it? where's my gin? 

victor: who the hell's that? 

mr equator: oh, i took the liberty of inviting an old friend along, as his wife has just passed away, and he's somewhat distraught poor chap. i hope you don't mind. 

arthur: come on in. 

mr freight: oh? my god, what a simply ghastly place. 

mr equator: not too good is it? a pint of crème de menthe for my friend. well how are you, you great poof? 

iris: aaaagh! boo boo hooo. 

mr freight: i've asked along a simply gorgeous little man i picked up outside the odeon. 

mr equator: is he sexy? 

mr cook: i had to bring the goat, he's not well. i only hope he don't go on the carpet. 

mr equator: come on then love, drop 'em. 

iris: aaaaaaagh! 

mr equator: blimey, she don't go much do she. 

audrey: ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, oooooh! i've wet 'em 

mr cook: the goat's just done a bundle. 

victor: look, get out all of you. go on. get out! get out! 

mr equator: i beg your pardon? 

victor: i'm turning you all out. i'm not having my house filled with filthy perverts, now look, i'm giving you just half a minute then i'm going to call the police, so get out. 

mr equator: i don't much like the tone of your voice. 

mr equator: right let's have a ding dong... 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 'monty python's flying circus' 

<scene walk-on part in sketch>

none: lingerie shop set. assistant standing waiting behind counter. at the side the robber also stands waiting. they hum to themselves and waste time, looking at wrist watches, this takes about fifteen seconds. 

none: cut to letter on bbc stationary. the camera pulls back to show a grotty little man reading the letter and sitting at a breakfast table in a small kitchen. his wife is busying herself in wifelike activities. 

man: ooh. ooh. 

wife: oh, what is it dear? 

man: it's from the bbc. they want to know if i want to be in a sketch on telly. 

wife: oooh. that's nice. 

man: what? it's acting innit? 

wife: yes. 

man: well i'm a plumber. i can't act. 

wife: oh, you never know till you try. look at mrs brando's son next door. he was mending the fridge when they came and asked him to be the wild one. what do they want you to do? 

man: well, they just want me to stand at a counter, and when the sketch starts i go out. 

wife: oh, that sounds nice. it's what they call a walk-on. 

man: walk-on? that's a walk-off, that's what this is. 

robber: well, where is he, george? 

floor manager: i don't know, he should have been here hours ago. 

robber: he bloody should have been. 

wife: well what else does it say? 

man: it just says 'we would like you to be in a sketch. you are standing at a counter. when the sketch starts you go off. yours faithfully, lord hill.' 

wife: oh well, you'd better be off then. 

man: yeah, well, what about the cat? 

wife: oh i'll look after the cat. goodness me, mrs newman's eldest never worried about the cat when he went off to do 'the sweet bird of youth'. 

man: all right then, all right. bye. bye dear. 

wife: bye bye, and mind you don't get seduced. 

wife: oh, it'll make a change from plumbing. dad! frank's got a television part. 

wife: you missed him. 

<scene bank robber (lingerie shop)>

robber: good morning, i am a bank robber. er, please don't panic, just hand over all your money. 

assistant: this is a lingerie shop, sir. 

robber: fine, fine, fine. 

robber: adopt, adapt and improve. motto of the round table. well, um ... what have you got? 

assistant: er, we've got corsets, stockings, suspender belts, tights, bras, slips, petticoats, knickers, socks and garters, sir. 

robber: fine, fine, fine, fine. no large piles of money in safes? 

assistant: no, sir. 

robber: no deposit accounts? 

assistant: no sir. 

robber: no piles of cash in easy to carry bags? 

assistant: none at all sir. 

robber: no luncheon vouchers? 

robber: fine, fine. well, um... adopt, adapt and improve. just a pair of knickers then please. 

<scene trailer>

unction: well that was a bit of fun wasn't it. ha, ha, ha. and a special good evening to 

unction: you 

unction: me 

unction: , ha, ha, ha. well, let's see what we've got next. in a few moments 'it's a tree' and in the chair as usual is arthur tree, and starring in the show will be a host of star guests as his star guests. and then at 9.30 we've got another rollocking half hour of laughter-packed squalor with 'yes it's the sewage farm attendants'. and this week dan falls into a vat of human dung with hilarious consequences. ha, ha, ha. but now it's the glittering world of show business with arthur tree... 

<scene arthur tree>

tree: hello. hello people, and welcome to 'it's a tree'. we have some really exiting guests for you this evening. a fabulous spruce, back from a tour of holland, three gum trees making their first appearance in this country, scots pine and the conifers, and elm tree bole - there you go, can't be bad - an exiting new american plank, a rainforest and a bucket of sawdust giving their views on teenage violence, and an unusual guest for this programme, a piece of laminated plastic. 

tree: but first, will you please, please welcome - a block of wood. 

tree: well, er, thanks tree. i've got to pay the rent. 

tree: ha, ha, ha, ha, super. well, what have you been doing, block? 

block: well i've just been starring in several major multi-million dollar international films, and, during breaks on the set, i've been designing a cathedral, doing wonderful unpublicized work for charity, er, finishing my history of the world, of course, pulling the birds, er, photographing royalty on the loo, averting world war three - can't be bad - and, er learning to read. 

tree: the full renaissance bit, really...super, super. well i've got to stop you there block i'm afraid, because we've got someone who's been doing cabaret in the new forest. from america, will you welcome please a chippendale writing desk. 

none: animation: 

<scene vocational guidance counseller (chartered accountant)>

voices singing: vocational guidance counsellor ... vocational guidance counsellor ... vocational guidance counsellor ... etc. 

counsellor: ah mr anchovy. do sit down. 

anchovy: thank you. take the weight off the feet, eh? 

counsellor: yes, yes. 

anchovy: lovely weather for the time of year, i must say. 

counsellor: enough of this gay banter. and now mr anchovy, you asked us to advise you which job in life you were best suited for. 

anchovy: that is correct, yes. 

counsellor: well i now have the results here of the interviews and the aptitude tests that you took last week, and from them we've built up a pretty clear picture of the sort of person that you are. and i think i can say, without fear of contradiction, that the ideal job for you is chartered accountancy. 

anchovy: but i 

anchovy: am 

anchovy: a chartered accountant. 

counsellor: jolly good. well back to the office with you then. 

anchovy: no! no! no! you don't understand. i've been a chartered accountant for the last twenty years. i want a new job. something 

anchovy: exciting 

anchovy: live 

anchovy: . 

counsellor: well chartered accountancy is rather exciting isn't it? 

anchovy: exciting? no it's 

anchovy: not 

anchovy: dull 

anchovy: . my god it's dull, it's so desperately dull and tedious and stuffy and boring and des-per-ate-ly dull. 

counsellor: well, er, yes mr anchovy, but you see your report here says that you are an extremely dull person. you see, our experts describe you as an appallingly dull fellow, unimaginative, timid, lacking in initiative, spineless, easily dominated, no sense of humour, tedious company and irrepressibly drab and awful. and whereas in most professions these would be considerable drawbacks, in chartered accountancy they are a positive boon. 

anchovy: but don't you see, i came here to find a new job, a new life, a new 

anchovy: meaning 

anchovy: to my existence. can't you help me? 

counsellor: well, do you have any idea of what you want to do? 

anchovy: yes, yes i have. 

counsellor: what? 

anchovy: lion taming. 

counsellor: well yes. yes. of course, it's a bit of a jump isn't it? i mean, er, chartered accountancy to lion taming in one go. you don't think it might be better if you worked your way 

counsellor: towards 

counsellor: lion taming, say, via banking? 

anchovy: no, no, no, no. no. i don't want to wait. at nine o'clock tomorrow i want to be in there, taming. 

counsellor: fine, fine. but do you, do you have any qualifications? 

anchovy: yes, i've got a hat. 

counsellor: a hat? 

anchovy: yes, a hat. a lion taming hat. a hat with 'lion tamer' on it. i got it at harrods. and it lights up saying 'lion tamer' in great big neon letters, so that you can tame them after dark when they're less stroppy. 

counsellor: i see, i see. 

anchovy: and you can switch it off during the day time, and claim reasonable wear and tear as allowable professional expenses under paragraph 335c... 

counsellor: yes, yes, yes, i do follow, mr anchovy, but you see the snag is... if i now call mr chipperfield and say to him, 'look here, i've got a forty-five-year-old chartered accountant with me who wants to become a lion tamer', his first question is not going to be 'does he have his own hat?' he's going to ask what sort of experience you've had with lions. 

anchovy: well i ... i've seen them at the zoo. 

counsellor: good, good, good. 

anchovy: lively brown furry things with short stumpy legs and great long noses. i don't know what all the fuss is about, i could tame one of those. they look pretty tame to start with. 

counsellor: and these, er, these lions ... how high are they? 

anchovy: well they're about so high, you know. they don't frighten me at all. 

counsellor: really. and do these lions eat ants? 

anchovy: yes, that's right. 

counsellor: er, well, mr anchovy ... i'm afraid what you've got hold of there is an anteater. 

anchovy: a what? 

counsellor: an anteater. not a lion. you see a lion is a huge savage beast, about five feet high, ten feet long, weighing about four hundred pounds, running forty miles per hour, with masses of sharp pointed teeth and nasty long razor-sharp claws that can rip your belly open before you can say 'eric robinson', and they look like this. 

counsellor: time enough i think for a piece of wood. 

voice over: the larch. 

counsellor: now, shall i call mr chipperfield? 

anchovy: er, no, no, no. i think your idea of making the transition to lion taming via easy stages, say via insurance... 

counsellor: or banking. 

anchovy: or banking, yes, yes, banking that's a man's life, isn't it? banking, travel, excitement, adventure, thrills, decisions affecting people's lives. 

counsellor: jolly good, well, er, shall i put you in touch with a bank? 

anchovy: yes. 

counsellor: fine. 

anchovy: er... no, no, no. look, er, it's a big decision, i'd like a couple of weeks to think about it... er... you know, don't want to jump into it too quickly. maybe three weeks. i could let you know definitely then, i just don't want to make this definite decision. i'm er... 

counsellor: well this is just one of the all too many cases on our books of chartered accountancy. the only way that we can fight this terrible debilitating social disease, is by informing the general public of its consequences, by showing young people that it's just not worth it. so, so please... give generously... to this address: the league for fighting chartered accountancy, 55 lincoln house, basil street, london, sw3. 

none: caption: 

unction: oh, well that was fun wasn't it? 

viking: no it wasn't, you fairy. 

unction: oh, hello sailor, 

viking: here, you wouldn't have got on one of our voyages - they were all dead butch. 

unction: oh that's not what i've heard. 

<scene the first man to jump the channel>

voice over: there is an epic quality about the sea which has throughout history stirred the hearts and minds of englishmen of all nations. sir francis drake, captain webb, nelson of trafalgar and scott of the antartic - all rose to the challenge of the mighty ocean. and today another englishman may add his name to the golden roll of history: mr ron obvious of neaps end. for today, ron obvious hopes to be the first man to jump the channel. 

interviewer: ron, now let's just get this quite clear - you're intending to jump across the english channel? 

ron: oh yes, that is correct, yes. 

interviewer: and, er, just how far is that? 

ron: oh, well it's twenty-six miles from here to calais. 

interviewer: er, that's to the beach at calais? 

ron: well, no, no, provided i get a good lift off and maybe a gust of breeze over the french coast, i shall be jumping into the centre of calais itself. 

interviewer: ron are you using any special techniques to jump this great distance? 

ron: oh no, no. i shall be using an ordinary two-footed jump, er, straight up in the air and across the channel. 

interviewer: i see. er, ron, what is the furthest distance that you've jumped, er, so far? 

ron: er, oh, eleven foot six inches at motspur park on july 22nd. er, but i have done nearly twelve feet unofficially. 

interviewer: i see. er, ron, ron, ron, aren't you worried ron, aren't you worried jumping twenty-six miles across the sea? 

ron: oh, well no, no, no, no. it is in fact easier to jump over sea than over dry land. 

interviewer: well how is that? 

ron: er, well my manager explained it to me. you see if you're five miles out over the english channel, with nothing but sea underneath you, er, there is a very great impetus to say in the air. 

interviewer: i see. well, er, thank you very much ron and the very best of luck. 

ron: thank you. thank you. 

interviewer: mr vercotti, er mr vercotti ... mr vercotti... 

mr vercotti: what? 

mr vercotti: i don't know what you're talking about. 

interviewer: er, no, we're from the bbc, mr vercotti. 

mr vercotti: who? 

interviewer: the bbc. 

mr vercotti: oh, oh. i see. i thought, i thought you were the er . .. i like the police a lot, i've got a lot of time for them. 

interviewer: mr, er, mr vercotti, what is your chief task as ron's manager? 

mr vercotti: well my main task is, er, to fix a sponsor for the big jump. 

interviewer: and who is the sponsor? 

mr vercotti: the chippenham brick company. ah, they, er, pay all the bills, er, in return for which ron will be carrying half a hundredweight of their bricks. 

interviewer: i see. well, er, it looks as if ron is ready now. he's got the bricks. he's had his passport checked and he's all set to go. and he's off on the first ever cross-channel jump. 

interviewer: will ron be trying the cross-channel jump again soon? 

mr vercotti: no. no. i'm taking him off the jumps. er, because i've got something lined up for ron next week that i think is very much more up his street. 

interviewer: er, what's that? 

mr vercotti: er, ron is going to eat chichester cathedral. 

interviewer: well, there he goes, ron obvious of neaps end, in an attempt which could make him the first man ever to eat an entire anglican cathedral. 

<scene tunnelling from godalming to java>

mr vercotti: well, er, i think, david, this is something which ron and myself are really keen on. ron is going to tunnel from godalming here to java here. 

interviewer: java. 

mr vercotti: yeah, er, i, i personally think this is going to make ron a household name overnight. 

interviewer: and how far has he got? 

mr vercotti: er, well, he's quite far now, dave, well on the way. well on the way, yeah. 

interviewer: well where is he exactly? 

mr vercotti: yeah. 

interviewer: where? 

mr vercotti: oh, er, well, er, you know, it's difficult to say exactly. he's er, you know, in the area of er, ron, how far have you got? 

ron: oh about two foot six mr vercotti. 

mr vercotti: yeah well keep digging lad, keep digging. 

ron: mr vercotti are you sure there isn't a spade? 

interviewer: er, mr verccotti, what do you say to people who accuse you of exploiting ron for your own purposes? 

mr vercotti: well, it's totally untrue, david. ever since i left sicily i've been trying to do the best for ron. i know what ron wants to do, i believe in him and i'm just trying to create the opportunities for ron to do the kind of things he wants to do. 

interviewer: and what's he going to do today? 

mr vercotti: he's going to split a railway carriage with his nose. 

mr vercotti: the only difficult bit for ron is getting out of the earth's atmosphere. er, once he's in orbit he'll be able to run straight to mercury. 

mr vercotti: i am now extremely hopeful that ron will break the world record for remaining underground. he's a wonderful boy this, he's got this really enormous talent, this really huge talent. 

<scene pet conversions>

man: good morning, i'd like to buy a cat. 

shopkeeper: certainly sir. i've got a lovely terrier. 

man: no, i want a cat really. 

shopkeeper: oh yeah, how about that? 

man: no, that's the terrier. 

shopkeeper: well, it's as near as dammit. 

man: well what do you mean? i want a cat. 

shopkeeper: listen, tell you what. i'll file its legs down a bit, take its snout out, stick a few wires through its cheeks. there you are, a lovely pussy cat. 

man: its not a proper cat. 

shopkeeper: what do you mean? 

man: well it wouldn't meow. 

shopkeeper: well it would howl a bit. 

man: no, no, no, no. er, have you got a parrot? 

shopkeeper: no, i'm afraid not actually guv, we're fresh out of parrots. i'll tell you what though ... i'll lop its back legs off, make good, strip the fur, stick a couple of wings on and staple on a beak of your own choice. 

shopkeeper: no problem. lovely parrot. 

man: how long would that take? 

shopkeeper: oh, let me see ... er, stripping the fur off, no legs ... 

shopkeeper: harry ... can you do a parrot job on this terrier straight away? 

harry: no, i'm still putting a tuck in the airedale, and then i got the frogs to let out. 

shopkeeper: friday? 

man: no i need it for tomorrow. it's a present. 

shopkeeper: oh dear, it's a long job. you see parrot conversion ... tell you what though, for free, terriers make lovely fish. i mean i could do that for you straight away. legs off, fins on, stick a little pipe through the back of its neck so it can breathe, bit of gold paint, make good ... 

man: you'd need a very big tank. 

shopkeeper: it's a great conversation piece. 

man: yes, all right, all right ... but, uh, only if i can watch. 

pearson: oh, i thought that was a bit predictable. 

man: it's been done before 

roman centurion: yeah, we did it for caesar's christmas show. 

caesar: no you didn't, you did jack and the beanstalk. 

<scene gorilla librarian>

vicar: here what was that picture? 

chairman: ssh! next! 

chairman: good morning - mr phipps? 

gorilla: that's right, yes. 

chairman: er, do take a seat. 

gorilla: right sir. 

chairman: now could you tell us roughly why you want to become a librarian? 

gorilla: er, well, i've had a certain amount of experience running a library at school. 

chairman: yes, yes. what sort of experience? 

gorilla: er, well for a time i ran the upper science library. 

chairman: yes, yes. now mr phipps, you do realize that the post of librarian carries with it certain very important responsibilities. i mean, there's the selection of books, the record library, and the art gallery. now it seems to me that your greatest disadvantage is your lack of professional experience ... coupled with the fact that, uh, being a gorilla, you would tend to frighten people. 

vicar: is he a gorilla? 

chairman: yes he is. 

vicar: well why didn't it say on his form that he's a gorilla? 

chairman: well, you see applicants are not required to fill in their species. 

vicar: what was that picture? 

chairman: sh! ... mr phipps, what is your attitude toward censorship in a public library? 

gorilla: how do you mean, sir? 

vicar: well i mean for instance, would you for instance stock 'last exit to brooklyn'... or ... 'groupie'? 

gorilla: yes, i think so. 

vicar: good. 

chairman: yes, well, that seems to me to be very sensible mr phipps. i can't pretend that this library hasn't had its difficulties ... mr robertson, your predecessor, an excellent librarian, savaged three people last week and had to be destroyed. 

gorilla: i'm sorry sir. 

chairman: oh, no, don't be sorry. you see, i don't believe that libraries should be drab places where people sit in silence, and that's been the main reason for our policy of employing wild animals as librarians. 

vicar: and also, they're much more permissive. pumas keep hank janson on open shelves... 

chairman: yes. yes. yes. 

chairman: mr phipps ... kong! you can be our next librarian - you're proud, majestic and fierce enough ... will you do it? 

gorilla: i ... don't think i can sir. 

vicar: why not? 

gorilla: i.. i'm not really a gorilla. 

vicar: eh? 

gorilla: i'm a librarian in a skin. 

chairman: why this deception? 

gorilla: well, they said it was the best way to get the job. 

chairman: get out, mr librarian phipps, seeing as you're not a gorilla, but only dressed up as one, trying to deceive us in order to further your career ... 

chairman: ah. mr pattinson ... sit! 

<scene letters to 'daily mirror'>

voice over: dear mirror view, i would like to be paid five guineas for saying something stupid about a television show. yours sincerely, mrs sybil agro. 

voice over: dear david jacobs, east grinstead, friday. why should i have to pay sixty-four guineas each year for my television licence when i can buy one for six. yours sincerely, captain r. h. pretty. ps support rhodesia, cut motor taxes, save the argylls, running-in please pass. 

voice over: dear old codgers, some friends of mine and i have formed a consortium, and working with sophisticated drilling equipment, we have discovered extensive nickel deposits off western scotland. the cincinnatti mining company. 

voices over: good for you, ma'am. 

voice over: dear old codgers, i am president of the united states of america, yours truly, r. m. nixon. 

voices over: phew! bet that's a job and a half, ma'am. 

voice over: dear sir, i am over three thousand years old and would like to see any scene with two people in bed. 

voices over: bet that's a link ma'am. 

<scene strangers in the night>

maurice: vera ... vera ... darling! wake up my little lemon. come to my arms. 

vera: maurice! what are you doing here? 

maurice: i could not keep away from you. i must have you all the time. 

vera: oh this is most inconvenient. 

maurice: don't talk to me about convenience, love consumes my naughty mind, i'm delirious with desire. 

husband: what's that, vera? 

vera: oh nothing, dear. just a trick of the light. 

husband: righto. 

vera: phew! that was close. 

maurice: now then my little banana, my little fruit salad, i can wait for you no longer. you must be mine utterly... 

vera: oh, maurice! 

roger: vera! how dare you! 

vera: roger! 

roger: what's the meaning of this? 

vera: oh i can explain everything, my darling! 

roger: who is this? 

vera: this is maurice zatapathique ... roger thompson ... roger thompsnn ... maurice zatapathique. 

maurice: how do you do. 

roger: how do you do ... 

roger: how could you do this to me, vera ... after all we've been through? dammit, i love you. 

maurice: vera! don't you understand, it's me that loves you. 

husband: what's happening, vera? 

vera: oh, nothing dear. just a twig brushing against the window. 

roger: come to me vera! 

vera: oh ... not now, roger. 

maurice: vera, my little hedgehog! don't turn me away! 

vera: oh it cannot be, maurice. 

biggles: hands off, you filthy bally froggie! 

vera: oh ken, ken biggles! 

biggles: yes, algy's here as well. 

vera: algy braithwaite? 

algy: that's right... vera ... 

algy: oh god you know we both still bally love you. 

vera: oh biggles! algy. oh, but how wonderful! 

vera: oh, er, nothing dear. it's just the toilet filling up. 

husband: yes ... right and right again. 

mexican: muchas gracias... 

vera: oh. the herman rodrigues four! 

husband: vera! 

husband: i distinctly heard a mexican rhythm combo. 

vera: oh no, dear... it was just the electric blanket switching off. 

husband: hm. well i'm going for a tinkle. 

vera: oh no you can't do that. here, we haven't finished the sketch yet! 

algy: dash it all, there's only another bally page. 

roger: i say. there's no one to react to. 

maurice: don't talk to the camera. 

roger: oh sorry. 

vera: here it's no good you coming in ... he's gone and left the sketch. 

biggles: yes, he went for a tinkle. 

husband: sh! i think my wife is beginning to suspect something... 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 'monty python's flying circus' 

man: have you finished in there yet? 

first voice over: dear sir, i object strongly to the obvious lavatorial turn this show has already taken. why do we never hear about the good things in britain, like mary bignall's wonderful jump in 1964? yours etc., ken voyeur. 

second voice over: dear sir, i object strongly to the obvious athletic turn this show has now taken. why can't we hear more about the human body? there is nothing embarrassing or nasty about the human body except for the intestines and bits of the bottom. 

third voice over: dear sir, i object strongly to the letters on your programme. they are clearly not written by the general public and are merely included for a cheap laugh. yours sincerely etc., william knickers. 

<scene interruptions>

none: animation: 

canning: 1348. the black death, typhus, cholera, consumption, bubonic plague. 

first undertaker: ah, those were the days... 

canning: now i'm... i'm... now i'm not prepared to go on with this, unless these interruptions cease. all right? right. the devastating effect of these, em... 

canning: and don't zoom in on me, no i'm off, i'm off. that's it. that's all. i'm off. 

second undertaker: keep it up. 

<scene agatha christie sketch>

inspector tiger: this house is surrounded. i'm afraid i must not ask anyone to leave the room. no, i must ask nobody ... no, i must ask everybody to... i must not ask anyone to leave the room. no one must be asked by me to leave the room. no, no one must ask the room to leave. i ... i ... ask the room shall by someone be left. not. ask nobody the room somebody leave shall i. shall i leave the room? everyone must leave the room... as it is... with them in it. phew. understand? 

colonel pickering: you don't want anybody to leave the room. 

inspector tiger: allow me to introduce myself. i'm afraid i must ask that no one leave the room. allow me to introduce myself. i'm inspector tiger. 

all: tiger? 

inspector tiger: where? where? what? ah. me tiger. you jane. grrr. beg your pardon, allow me to introduce myself i'm afraid i must ask that no one leave the room. 

lady velloper: why not? 

inspector tiger: elementary. since the body was found in this room, and no one has left it. therefore ... the murderer must be somebody in this room. 

colonel pickering: what body? 

inspector tiger: somebody. in this room. must the murderer be. the murderer of the body is somebody in this room, which nobody must leave... leave the body in the room not to be left by anybody. nobody leaves anybody or the body with somebody. everybody who is anybody shall leave the body in the room body. take the tablets tiger. anybody 

inspector tiger: albody me introbody albodyduce. 

inspector: that's better, now i'm inspector tiger and i must ask that nobody leave the room. 

inspector: now someone has committed a murder here, and that murderer is someone in this room. the question is ... who? 

colonel pickering: look, there hasn't been a murder. 

inspector tiger: no murder. 

all: no. 

inspector tiger: oh. i don't like it. it's too simple, too clear cut. i'd better wait. 

inspector tiger: no, too simple, too clear cut. 

colonel pickering: by jove, he was right. 

lookout: this house is surrounded. i must ask that no one leave the room. i'm chief superintendent lookout. 

lady velloper: look out? 

lookout: what, where, oh, me, lookout. lookout of the yard. 

lady velloper: why, what would we see? 

lookout: i'm sorry? 

lady velloper: what would we see if we look out of the yard? 

lookout: . .. i'm afraid i don't follow that at all. ah ha. the body. so the murderer must be somebody in this room. unless he had very long arms. say thirty or forty feet. i think we can discount that one. ha, ha, ha, 

lookout: then just before the lights went up there was a shot. 

theresamanbehindyer: all right... all right, the house is surrounded and nobody leave the room and all the rest of it. allow me to introduce myself. i'm assistant chief constable theresamanbehindyer. 

all: theresamanbehindyer? 

theresamanbehindyer: ah, you're not going to catch me with an old one like that. right let's reconstruct the crime. constable you be inspector tiger. 

constable: right, sir. nobody leave the room ask shall - somebody i leave nobody in the room body shall, take the tablets tigerbody. alself me to my duce introlow left body in the roomself. 

theresamanbehindyer: very good. just sit down there. right now we'll pretend the lights have gone out. constable, you scream. 

theresamanbehindyer: and the door opens... 

second undertaker: we're interrupting this sketch but we'll be bringing you back the moment anything interesting happens. meanwhile here are some friends of mine. 

voice over: dear sir, i'm sorry this letter is late, it should have come at the beginning of the programme. yours, ivor bigbottie, (age two). 

<scene literary football discussion>

interviewer: from the plastic arts we turn to football. last night in the stadium of light, jarrow, we witnessed the resuscitation of a great footballing tradition, when jarrow united came of age, in a european sense, with an almost proustian display of modern existentialist football. virtually annihilating by midfield moral argument the now surely obsolescent catennachio defensive philosophy of signor alberto fanffino. bologna indeed were a side intellectually out argued by a jarrow team thrusting and bursting with aggressive kantian positivism and outstanding in this fine jarrow team was my man of the match, the arch-thinker, free scheming, scarcely ever to be curbed, midfield cognoscento, jimmy buzzard. 

buzzard: good evening brian. 

interviewer: jimmy, at least one ageing football commentator was gladdened last night by the sight of an english footballer breaking free of the limpid tentacles of packed mediterranean defence. 

interviewer: were you surprised at the way the italians ceded midfield dominance so early on in the game? 

buzzard: well brian... i'm opening a boutique. 

interviewer: this is of course symptomatic of a new breed of footballer as it is indeed symptomatic of your whole genre of player, is it not? 

interviewer: what i'm getting at, jimmy, is you seem to have discovered a new concept with a mode in which you dissected the italian defence, last night. 

interviewer: do you think jarrow will adopt a more defensive posture for the first leg of the next tie in turkey? 

buzzard: i hit the ball first time and there it was in the back of the net. 

interviewer: yes, yes - but have you any plans for dealing with the free-scoring turkish forwards? 

second undertaker: and now let's take a look at the state of play in the detective sketch. 

<scene interesting people>

compère: hello, good evening, and welcome to yet another edition of 'interesting people'. and my first interesting person tonight is the highly interesting mr howard stools from kendal in westmorland. 

compère: good evening mr stools. 

compère: mr stools, what makes you particularly interesting? 

voice: well, i'm only half an inch long. 

compère: well that's 

compère: extremely 

compère: interesting, thank you for coming along on the show tonight mr stools. 

mr stools: i thought you'd think that was interesting david, in fact... 

compère: our next guest tonight has come all the way from egypt, he's just flown into london today, he's mr ali bayan, he's with us in the studio tonight and he's stark raving mad. 

compère: mr ali bayan, stark raving mad. now it's time for our music spot and we turn the spotlight tonight on the rachel toovey bicycle choir, 

compère: with their fantastic arrangement of 'men of harlech' for bicycle bells only. 

compère: the rachel toovey bicycle choir. really interesting. remember, if you're interesting and want to appear on this programme, write your name and address and your telephone number and send it to this address: 

compère: thank you, thank you. now here's an interesting person. apart from being a full-time stapling machine, he can also give a cat influenza. 

compère: well, you can't get much more interesting than that, or can you? with me now is mr thomas walters of west hartlepool who is totally invisible. good evening, mr walters. 

walters: over here, hughie. 

none: compère turns to find a boringly dressed man sitting by him. 

compère: mr walters, are you sure you're invisible? 

walters: oh yes, most certainly. 

compère: well, mr walters, what's it like being invisible? 

walters: well, for a start, at the office where i work i can be sitting at my desk all day and the others totally ignore me. at home, even though we are in the same room, my wife does not speak to me for hours, people pass me by in the street without a glance in my direction, and i can walk into a room without... 

compère: well, whilst we've got interesting people, we met mr oliver cavendish who... 

walters: ... even now you yourself, you do hardly notice me... 

compère: mr oliver cavendish of leicester, who claims to be able to recite the entire bible in one second, whilst being struck on the head with a large axe. ha, ha, wow. we've since discovered that he was a fraud, yes a fraud, he did not in fact recite the entire bible he merely recited the first two words, 'in the...' before his death. 

compère: now it's time for 'interesting sport', and this week it's all-in cricket, live from the municipal baths, croydon. 

compère: with me now is mr ken dove, twice voted the most interesting man in dorking. ken, i believe you're interested in shouting. 

dove: yes, i'm interested in shouting all right, by jove you certainly hit the nail on the head with that particular observation of yours then. 

compère: what does your wife think of this? 

dove: shut up! 

walters: ... at parties for instance people never come up to me, i just sit there and everybody totally... 

compère: that is tiddles, i believe? 

man: yes, this is, this is tiddles. 

compère: yes, and what does she do? 

man: she flies across the studio and lands in a bucket of water. 

compère: by herself? 

man: no, i fling her. 

compère: well that's extremely interesting, ladies and gentlemen - mr don savage and tiddles. 

dove: i'm more interesting than a wet pussycat. 

walters: ... for hour after hour... 

compère: yes, great, well now for the first lime on television 'interesting people' brings you a man who claims he can send bricks to sleep by hypnosis. mr keith maniac from guatemala. 

maniac: good evening. 

compère: keith, you claim you can send bricks to sleep. 

maniac: yes, that is correct, i can... 

compère: entirely by hypnosis. 

maniac: yes ... i use no artificial means, whatsoever. 

dove: you've injured mr stools! 

maniac: i simply stare at the brick and it goes to sleep. 

compère: well, we have a brick here, keith. 

compère: perhaps you can send it to sleep for us... 

maniac: oh ... ah, well, i am afraid that is already asleep. 

compère: how do you know? 

maniac: well, it's not moving .... 

compère: oh, i see - have we got a moving brick? yes, we've got a moving brick, keith, it's coming over now. 

maniac: there we are, fast asleep. 

compère: very good, very good indeed. 

maniac: all done with the eyes. 

compère: yes, mr keith maniac from guatemala. 

dove: mr stools - speak to me, howard. 

compère: mr keith maniac of guatemala... and now four tired undertakers. 

voice over: we interrupt this very quickly to take you back to the jimmy buzzard interview, where we understand something exciting's just happened. 

buzzard: i've fallen off my chair, brian. 

<scene undertakers film>

<scene eighteenth-century social legislation>

voice over: good evening. tonight i want to examine the whole question of eighteenth-century social legislation - its relevance to the hierarchical structure of post-renaissance society, and its impact on the future of parochial organization in an expanding agrarian economy. but first a bit of fun. 

voice over: to put england's social legislation in a european context is professor gert van der whoops of the rijksmuseum in the hague. 

man: and now professor r.j. canning. 

<scene the battle of trafalgar>

canning: the cat sat on the mat. and now the battle of trafalgar... 

canning: tonight we examine popular views of this great battle. was the battle of trafalgar fought in the atlantic off southern spain? or was it fought on dry land near cudworth in yorkshire? here is one man who thinks it was... 

canning: and here is his friend. 

canning: what makes you think the battle of trafalgar was fought near cudworth? 

first gumby: because ... drake ... was ... too ... clever for... the german ... fleet. 

canning: i beg your pardon? 

first gumby: ... oh i've forgotten what i said now. 

canning: mr gumby's remarkable views have sparked off a wave of controversy amongst his fellow historians. 

second gumby: well i rink ... we ... should ... reappraise ... our concept of the ... battle of trafalgar. 

third gumby: well... well... i agree with everything mr gumby says. 

fourth gumby: well, i think cement is more interesting than people think. 

voice over: one subject... four different views ... 

voice over: twelve and six... in a plain wrapper. 

canning: the stuff of history is indeed woven in the woof. pearl harbour. there are pages in history's book which are written on the grand scale. events so momentous that they dwarf man and time alike. and such is the battle of pearl harbour, re-enacted for us now by the women of barley townswomen's guild. 

canning: miss rita fairbanks - you organized this reconstruction of the battle of pearl harbour - why? 

rita: well we've always been extremely interested in modern drama ... we were of course the first townswomen's guild to perform 'camp on blood island', and last year we did our extremely popular re-enactment of 'nazi war atrocities'. so this year we thought we would like to do something in a lighter vein... 

canning: so you chose the battle of pearl harbour? 

rita: yes, that's right, we did. 

canning: well i can see you're all ready to go. so i'll just wish you good luck in your latest venture. 

rita: thank you very much, young man. 

canning: ladies and gentlemen, the world of history is proud to present the premiere of the batley townswomen's guild's re-enactment of 'the battle of pearl harbour'. 

canning: the battle of pearl harbour. incidentally, i'm sorry if i got a little bit shirty earlier on in the programme, when i kept getting interrupted by all these films and things that kept coming in, but i... 

<scene undertakers film>

canning: so i said if it happened again i'd get very angry and talk to lord hill and... 

canning: tell lord hill. 

none: credits 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 'monty python's flying circus' 

<scene falling from building>

first man: hey, did you see that? 

second man: uhm? 

first man: did you see somebody go past the window? 

second man: what? 

first man: somebody just went past the window. that way. 

second man: oh. oh. 

first man: another one. 

second man: huh? 

first man: another one just went past downwards. 

first man: two people have just fallen out of that window to their almost certain death. 

second man: fine, fine. fine. 

first man: look! two people 

first man: three people have just fallen past that window. 

second man: must be a board meeting. 

first man: oh yeah. 

first man: hey. that was wilkins of finance. 

second man: oh, no, that was robertson. 

first man: wilkins. 

second man: robertson. 

first man: that was wilkins. 

second man: that was wilkins. he was a good, good, er, golfer, wilkins. 

first man: very good golfer. very good golfer. rotten at finance. it'll be parkinson next. 

second man: bet you it won't. 

first man: how much. 

first man: how much do you bet it won't? fiver? 

second man: all right. 

first man: done. 

second man: you're on. 

first man: fine. 

first man: come on parky. 

second man: don't do it parky. 

first man: come on parky. jump parky. jump. 

second man: come on now be sensible parky. 

voice over: dear sir, i am writing to complain about that sketch about people failing out of a high building. i have worked all my life in such a building and have never once.... arrgghhh 

first man: parkinson! 

second man: johnson! 

none: animation 

<scene 'spectrum' - talking about things>

presenter: good evening. tonight 'spectrum' looks at one of the major problems in the world today - that old vexed question of what is going on. is there still time to confront it, let alone solve it, or is it too late? what are the figures, what are the facts, what do people mean when they talk about things? alexander hardacre of the economic affairs bureau. 

hardacre: in this graph, this column represents 23% of the population. this column represents 28% of the population, and this column represents 43% of the population. 

presenter: telling figures indeed, but what do they mean to you, what do they mean to me, what do they mean to the average man in the street? with me now is professor tiddles of leeds university... 

presenter: ... professor, you've spent many years researching into things, what do you think? 

professor: i think it's too early to tell. 

presenter: 'too early to tell' ... too early to say... it means the same thing. the word 'say' is the same as the word 'tell'. they're not spelt the same, but they mean the same. it's an identical situation, we have with 'ship' and 'boat' 

presenter: but the real question remains. what is the solution, if any, to this problem? what can we do? what am i saying? why am i sitting in this chair? why am i on this programme? and what am i going to say next? here to answer this is a professional cricketer. 

cricketer: i can say nothing at this point. 

presenter: well, you were wrong... professor? 

professor: hello. 

presenter: hello. so... where do we stand? where do we stand? where do we sit? where do we come? where do we go? what do we do? what do we say? what do we eat? what do we drink? what do we think? what do we do? 

signalman: sorry! 

<scene visitors from coventry>

none: cut to a small, tatty, little boarding house. 

landlady: hello, mr and mrs johnson? 

mr johnson: that's right. yes. 

landlady: well come on in, excuse me not shaking hands, i've just been putting a bit of lard on the cat's boil. 

johnson: very nice. 

landlady: well you must be tired, it's a long way from coventry, isn't it? 

johnson: well, we usually reckon on five and a half hours and it took us six hours and fifty-three minutes, with the twenty-five minute stop at frampton cottrell to stretch our legs, only we had to wait half an hour to get onto the m5 at droitwich. 

landlady: really? 

johnson: then there was a three mile queue just before bridgewater on the a38. we usually come round on the b3339 just before bridgewater, you see... 

johnson: ye, but this time we decided to risk it because they're always saying they're going to widen it there. 

landlady: are they? 

johnson: yes well just by the intersection, there where the a372 joins up, there's plenty of room to widen it there, there's only grass verges. they could get another six feet...knock down that hospital... then we took the coast road through williton and got all the taunton traffic on the a358 from crowcombe and stogumber... 

landlady: well you must be dying for a cup of tea. 

johnson: well, wouldn't say no, not if it's warm and wet. 

landlady: well come on in the lounge, i'm just going to serve afternoon tea. 

landlady: come on in, mr and mrs johnson, oh this is mr and mrs phillips. 

mr phillips: good afternoon. 

johnson: thank you. 

<scene mr hilter>

landlady: it's their third time here with us, we can't keep you away can we? ha, ha, and over here is mr hilter. 

hitler: ach. good time...good afternoon. 

landlady: ooh planning a little excursion are we mr hilter? 

hitler: ja, ja. we haff a little... 

hitler: was ist rückweise bewegen? 

von ribbentrop: hike. 

himmler: hiking. 

hitler: ah yes, ve make a little hike for, for bideford. 

johnson: oh well, you'll want the a39 then...no, no, you've got the wrong map there, this is stalingrad, you want the ilfracombe and barnstaple section. 

hitler: ah! hein...reginald you have the wrong map here you silly old leg-before-wicket english person. 

himmler: i'm sorry mein fuhrer. i did not... 

himmler: mein dickie old chum. 

landlady: lucky mr johnson pointed that out, eh? you wouldn't have had much fun in stalingrad, would you... 

landlady: i said, you wouldn't have had much fun in stalingrad, would you, ha, ha, ha? 

hitler: not much fun in stalingrad, no. 

landlady: oh i'm sorry i didn't introduce you. this is ron...ron vibbentrop. 

johnson: oh, not von ribbentrop, eh? 

landlady: and this is the quiet one, mr bimmler - heimlich bimmler. 

himmler: how do you do there squire, also i am not minehead lad but i in peterborough, lincolnshire was given birth to, but stay in peterborough lincolnshire house all during war, owing to nasty running sores, and was unable to go in the streets play football or go to nürnberg. i am retired vindow cleaner and pacifist, without doing war crimes 

himmler: tch tch tch, and am glad england win world cup - bobby charlton, martin peters - and eating lots of chips and fish and hole in the toads, and dundee cakes on piccadilly line. don't you know old chap i was head of gestapo for ten years. five years! no, no, nein, i was not head of gestapo at all...i make joke. 

landlady: oooh, mr bimmler, you do have us on. 

johnson: how long are you down here for, mr hilter. just the fortnight? 

hitler: get over there against the wall britischer pig, you're going to die! 

himmler: take it easy dickie old chum. 

von ribbentrop: i'm sorry mr. johnson, he's a bit on edge. he hasn't slept since 1945. 

hitler: shut your cake hole you nazi. 

von ribbentrop: cool it führer cat! 

himmler: ha, ha, ha. 

himmler: the fun we have. 

johnson: haven't i seen him on the television? 

von ribbentrop and himmler: nicht. nein. nein, oh no. 

johnson: television doctor? 

von ribbentrop: no!!! no! 

landlady: telephone, mr hilter, it's that nice mr mcgoering from the bell and compasses. he says he's found a place where you can hire bombers by the hour. 

hitler: if he opens his big mouth again...it's lampshade time! 

landlady: he's on the phone the whole time nowadays. 

johnson: in business is he? 

himmler: soon baby! 

landlady: of course it's his big day thursday. oh, they've been planning it for months. 

johnson: what's happens then? 

<scene the minehead by-election>

landlady: well it's the north minehead bye-election. mr hilter's standing as the national bocialist candidate. he's got wonderful plans for minehead. 

johnson: like what? 

landlady: well, for a start he wants to annex poland. 

johnson: oh, north minehead's conservative, isn't it? 

landlady: well, they get a lot of people at their rallies. 

johnson: rallies? 

landlady: well, their bocalist meetings, down at the axis café in rosedale road. 

hitler: i am not a racialist, but, und this is a big but, we in the national bocialist party believe das überleben muss gestammen sein mit der schneaky armstrong-jones. historische taunton ist volkermeinig von meinhead. 

himmler: , he says that historically taunton is a part of minehead already. 

von ribbentrop: he's right, do you know that? 

hitler: und bridgwater ist die letzte fühlung das wir haben in somerset! 

interviewer: what do you think of mr hilter's politics. 

yokel: i don't like the sound of these 'ere boncentration bamps. 

pepperpot: well, i gave him my baby to kiss and he bit it on the head. 

stockbroker: well, i think he'd do a lot of good to the stock exchange. 

pepperpot: no...no... 

himmler: oh yes britischer pals he is wunderbar...ful. so. 

pepperpot: i think he's right about the coons, but then i'm a bit mental. 

gumby: i think he's got beautiful legs! 

madd: well speaking as conservative candidate i just drone on and on and on...never letting anyone else get a word in edgeways, until i start foaming at the mouth and fall over backwards. 

presenter: foam at the mouth and fall over backwards. is he foaming at the mouth to fall over backwards or falling over backwards to foam at the mouth. tonight 'spectrum' examines the whole question of frothing and falling, coughing and calling, screaming and bawling, walling and stalling, galling and mauling, palling and hauling, trawling and squalling and zalling. zalling? is there a word zalling? if there is what does it mean...if there isn't what does it mean? perhaps both. maybe neither. what do i mean by the word mean? what do i mean by the word word, what do i mean by what do i mean, what do i mean by do, and what do i do by mean? what do i do by do by do and what do i do by wasting your time like this? goodnight. 

<scene police station (silly voices)>

first sergeant: goodnight. 

man: good evening, i wish to report a burglary. 

first sergeant: speak up please, sir. 

man: i wish to report a burglary. 

first sergeant: i can't hear you, sir. 

man: i wish to report a burglary! 

first sergeant: that's a little bit too loud. can you say it just a little less loud than that? 

first sergeant: no... i'm still not getting anything... er, could you try it in a higher register? 

man: what do you mean in a higher register? 

first sergeant: what? 

first sergeant: ahl that's it, hang on a moment. 

first sergeant: now a little bit louder. 

first sergeant: report a what? 

man: burglary! 

first sergeant: that's the exact frequency... now keep it there. 

second sergeant: hello, sarge! 

first sergeant: evening charlie. 

man: i was sitting at home with a friend of mine from camber sands, when we heard a noise in the bedroom. we went to investigate and found £5,000 stolen. 

first sergeant: well, i'm afraid i'm going off duty now sir. er, could you tell first sergeant foster? 

man: i was sitting at home with a friend of mine. 

second sergeant: excuse me sir, but, er, why the funny voice? 

man: oh, terribly sorry. i'd just got used to talking like that to the other sergeant. 

second sergeant: i'm terribly sorry... i can't hear you, sir, could you try speaking in a lower register? 

man: what! oh 

man: i wish to report the loss of £5,000. 

second sergeant: £5,000? that's serious, you'd better speak to the detective inspector. 

inspector: what's the trouble, sergeant? 

second sergeant: well- this- gentleman- sir- has- just- come- in- to- report- that- he- was- sitting- at- home- with- a- friend- when- he- heard- a- noise- in- the- backroom- went- round- to- investigate- and- found- that-£5,000- in- savings- had- been- stolen. 

inspector: where do you live sir? 

man: 121, halliwell road, dulwich, se21 

second sergeant: 121- halliwell- road- dulwich- se21 

inspector: another halliwell road job eh, sergeant? 

first sergeant: yes- i- can't- believe- it- i- thought- the- bloke- who'd- done- that- was- put- inside- last- year. 

second sergeant: yes, in parkhurst. 

first sergeant: well it must have been somebody else. 

inspector: ha-allo dar-ling, i'm afra-id i sh-a-ll be l-ate h-o-me this evening. 

second sergeant: calling all squad cars in the area... 

upperclass twit: some people do talk in the most extraordinary way. 

<scene upperclass twit of the year>

commentator: good afternoon and welcome to hurlingham park. you join us just as the competitors are running out onto the field on this lovely winter's afternoon here, with the going firm underfoot and very little sign of rain. well it certainly looks as though we're in for a splendid afternoon's sport in this the 127th upperclass twit of the year show. well the competitors will be off in a moment so let me just identify for you. 

commentator: and so the final result: the upperclass twit of the year - gervaise brook-hampster of kensington and weybridge; runner up - vivian smith-smythe-smith of kensington; and third - nigel incubator-jones of henley. well there'll certainly be some car door slamming in the streets of kensington tonight. 

voice over: dear sir, how splendid it is to see the flower of british manhood wiping itself out with such pluck and tenacity. britain need have no fear with leaders of this calibre. if only a few of the so-called working class would destroy themselves so sportingly. yours etc., brigadier mainwaring smith smith smith etc. deceased etc. ps etc. come on other ranks, show your stuff. 

none: animation: 

soldier: yes sir, i'll do my best, sir! 

<scene ken shabby>

none: cartoon link into still a of beautiful country home. 'hearts of oak' -type music. the camera tracks into the house and mixes to: close-up of distinguished, noble father and gay, innocent beautiful daughter - a delicately beautiful english rose. 

father: now i understand that you want to marry my daughter? 

shabby: that's right ... yeah... yeah... 

father: yes, you realize of course that rosamund is still rather young? 

rosamund: daddy you make me feel like a child. 

father: well i'm sure you know what i mean, mr ... er... mr... er .. er? 

shabby: shabby... ken shabby... 

father: mr shabby... i just want to make sure that you'll be able to look after daughter... 

shabby: oh yeah, yeah. i'll be able to look after 'er all right sport, eh, know what i mean, eh emggh! 

father: and, er, what job do you do? 

shabby: i clean out public lavatories. 

father: is there promotion involved? 

shabby: oh yeah, yeah. 

shabby: after five years they give me a brush... eurggha eurgh ... i'm sorry squire, i've gobbed on your carpet... 

father: and, ah, where are you going to live? 

shabby: well round at my gran's... she trains polecats, but most of them have suffocated so there should be a bit of spare room in the attic, eh. know what i mean. oooh! 

father: and when do you expect to get married? 

shabby: oh, right away sport. right away... you know... i haven't had it for weeks... 

father: well look i'll phone the bishop and see if we can get the abbey... 

shabby: oh, diarrhoea. 

voice over: the story so far: rosamund's father has become ensnared by mr shabby's extraordinary personal magnetism. bob and janet have eaten mr farquar's goldfish during an oxfam lunch, and mrs elsmore's marriage is threatened by doug's insistence that he is on a different level of consciousness. louise's hernia has been confirmed, and jim, bob's brother, has run over the editor of the 'lancet' on his way to see jenny, a freelance pagoda designer. on the other side of the continent napoleon still broods over the smouldering remains of a city he had crossed half the earth to conquer... 

voice over: ... whilst mary, roger's half-sister, settles down to watch television... 

<scene how far can a minister fall?>

voice over: there now follows a party political broadcast on behalf of the wood party. 

minister: good evening. we in the wood party feel very strongly that the present weak drafting of the local government bill leaves a lot to be desired, and we intend to fight. 

man: hello helllllllllloooooooooo! 

man: helloooo. 

minister: helloooooo. 

man: are you all right minister? 

minister: i appear to have landed on this kind of ledge thing. 

man: shall we lower down one of the bbc ropes? 

minister: if you'd be so kind. 

man: what length of bbc rope will we be likely to need? 

minister: i should use the longest bbc rope. that would be a good idea i would imagine. 

man: okey doke chief. er, tex get the longest bbc rope, and bring it here pronto. 

minister: the script would appear to have landed on a different ledge somewhat out of my grasp, don't you know. 

man: er, well perhaps when the rope reaches you minister you could kind of swing over to the ledge and grab it. 

minister: good idea. 

minister: well i'm going to carry on, if i can read the script. 

minister: good evening. we in the wood party 

minister: agh, agh. oh dear. hello! 

man: hello. 

minister: look, look, i must look a bit of a chump hanging upside down like this. 

man: i think love if we turn the picture upside down we should help the minister, then. 

minister: oh good. look, er, i'm sorry about this, but there seem to be a few gremlins about... i think i'd better start from the beginning. er, good evening, we in the wood party feel very strongly about, oh ... 

minister: bloody heck. oh, oh dear, er terribly sorry about this, about saying bloody heck on all channels, but, er... 

man: there's another script on the way down minister. 

minister: oh good, good. well ... er... er... um... good evening. er ... well... er... how are you? er... oh yes look, i don't want you to think of the wood party as a load of old men that like hanging around on ropes only i ... er ... oh ... oh. 

minister: ah. thank you. 

minister: look. i think we'd better call it a day. 

first robert: is this the furthest distance that a minister has fallen? robert. 

second robert: well surprisingly not. the canadian minister for external affairs fell nearly seven miles during a liberal conference in ottawa about six years ago, and then quite recently the kenyan minister for agric. and fish fell nearly twelve miles during a nairobi debate in parliament, although this hasn't been ratified yet. 

first robert: er, how far did the filipino cabinet fall last march? 

second robert: er, well they fell nearly thirty-nine miles but it's not really so remarkable as that was due to their combined weight, of course. robert. 

first robert: thank you, robert. well now what's your reaction to all this, robert? 

third robert: well, well robert the main thing is that it's terribly exciting. you see the minister is quite clearly lodged between rocks we know terribly little of. terribly little. of course the main thing is we're getting colour pictures of an extraordinarily high quality. the important thing is, the really exciting thing is the minister will 

third robert: oh, oh i needed that. 

first robert: thank you robert. well that seems to be about all we have time for tonight. unless anyone has anything else to say. has anyone anything else to say? 

presenter: what do we mean by no, what do we mean by yes, what do we mean by no, no, no. tonight spectrum looks at the whole question of what is no. 

<scene >

it's man: it's... 

<scene intermissions>

voice over: there will now be a short intermission. 

voice over: there will now be a medium-sized intermission. 

<scene restaurant (abuse/cannibalism)>

she: ooh i don't like this, ooh i don't like that. oh i don't think much to all this. oh fancy using that wallpaper. fancy using mustard. oo is that a proper one? oo it's not real. oh i don't think it's a proper restaurant unless they give you finger bowls. oo i don't like him. i'm going to have a baby in a few years. 

he: er, please excuse my wife. she may appear to be rather nasty but underneath she has a heart of formica. 

he: i'm sorry about that. 

waiter: that's all right sir, we get all sorts of lines in here. the head waiter will be along to abuse you in a few moments, and now if you'll excuse me i have to go and commit suicide. 

he: oh i'm sorry. 

waiter: it's all right. it's not because of anything serious. 

she: quite frankly i'm against people who commit suicide, i don't like that sort of person at all. i'm plain people and i'm proud of it, my mother's the salt of the earth, and i don't take the pill 'cos it's nasty. 

he: please excuse my wife, she may not be very beautiful, and she may have no money, and she may be a little talentless, boring and dull, but on the other hand ... 

he: ... sorry i can't think of anything. 

head waiter: fine. i'm the head waiter. this is a vegetarian restaurant only, we serve no animal flesh of any kind. we're not only proud of that, we're smug about it. so if you were to come in here asking me to rip open a small defenseless chicken, so you could chew its skin and eat its intestines, then i'm afraid i'd have to ask you to leave. 

he: no, no, no, no. 

head waiter: likewise if you were to ask us to slice the sides of a cow and serve it with small pieces of its liver ... 

head waiter: not for food anyway. 

she: quite frankly i'm against people who give vent to their loquacity by extraneous bombastic circumlocution. 

she: oh i don't like that. 

he: sometimes shirley i think you're almost human. 

head waiter: do you know i still wet my bed? 

he: once i married someone who was beautiful, and young, and gay, and free. whatever happened to her? 

she: you divorced her and married me. 

head waiter: i met my second wife at a second-wife-swapping party. trust me to arrive late. 

headmaster: always were late weren't you thompson? 

head waiter: hello headmaster. what are you doing here? 

headmaster: fine, fine, fine, thank you. fine, thank you. no more sherry for me don't you know. warner house beat badger house for the second cuppa, remarkable. we had to put most of the second form to sleep. no padre. bad business. they were beginning to play with themselves. still... you haven't seen my wife anywhere have you? 

head waiter: no. 

headmaster: oh thank god for that. 

she: oh i don't like him. do you know what i mean. do you know what i mean. i mean do you know what i mean. do you know what i mean. do you know what i mean. i mean do you know what i mean. all men are the same. 

head waiter: no it doesn't. 

prologue: sorry. 

head waiter: fine. would you care for a glass of blood? oh what a giveaway. 

she: no, we'd like to see the menu please. i don't think it's a proper restaurant unless you have a proper menu and anyway i might be pregnant. 

he: perhaps you'd care for a drink? 

she: ever since you've married me, douglas, you've treated me like an albatross. 

hopkins: evening. 

he: good evening. 

hopkins: i hope you're going to enjoy me this evening. i'm the special. try me with some rice. 

he: i beg your pardon? 

hopkins: a hopkins au gratin a la chef. 

he: ah, oh how do you... 

hopkins: don't play with your food. 

she: husband's an architect. 

hopkins: oh, one word of warning, sir, a little tip. 

hopkins: he's been here two weeks and nobody's touched him. 'nuff said? 

he: yes thank you. 

hopkins: well i must get along or i'll spoil. janet - to the kitchen. 

waiter: there's a dead bishop in the lobby, sir. 

head waiter: i don't know who keeps bringing them in here. 

she: oh i don't like that. i think it's silly. it's not a proper sketch without a proper punchline. i mean i don't know much about anything, i'm stupid. i'm muggins. nobody cares what i think. i'm always the one that has to do everything. nobody cares about me. well i'm going to have a lot of bloody babies and 

she: they 

she: he'll 

she: rhythm method 

she: . 

<scene advertisements>

voice over: there will now be a whopping great intermission, during which small ice creams in very large boxes will be sold. another way we can drive people away from the cinema is by showing you advertisements. 

voice over: do you like this? or how about this? or perhaps you prefer this latest model. then why not come to us. we supply only the very best models. 

man: albatross! albatross! albatross! 

person: two choc-ices please. 

man: i haven't got choc-ices. i only got the albatross. albatross! 

person: what flavour is it? 

man: it's a bird, innit? it's a bloody sea bird . .. it's not any bloody flavour. albatross! 

person: do you get wafers with it? 

man: course you don't get bloody wafers with it. albatross! 

person: how much is it? 

man: ninepence. 

person: i'll have two please. 

man: gannet on a stick. 

first voice over: there will now be a very short... 

person: well that's quite enough of that. and now a policeman near rottingdeans ... albatross! 

<scene come back to my place>

man: inspector, inspector. 

inspector: uh huh. 

man: i'm terribly sorry but i was sitting on a park bench over there, took my coat off for a minute and then i found my wallet had been stolen and £15 taken from it. 

inspector: well did you er, did you see anyone take it, anyone hanging around or... 

man: no no, there was no one there at all. that's the trouble. 

inspector: well there's not very much we can do about that, sir. 

man: do you want to come back to my place? 

inspector: ... yeah all right. 

<scene me doctor>

man: albatross 

doctor: mr. burtenshaw? 

man: me, doctor? 

doctor: no, 

doctor: me 

doctor: you 

doctor: mr. burtenshaw. 

man: my wife, doctor? 

doctor: no, your wife 

doctor: patient 

doctor: doctor. 

sister: come this way please. 

man: me, sister? 

doctor: no. she sister. me doctor. you mr. burtenshaw. 

nurse: doctor walters? 

doctor: me, nurse. 

nurse: no, doctor. 

doctor: no doctor? call ambulance. keep warm. 

sister: drink, doctor? 

doctor: drink doctor. eat sister. cook mr. burtenshaw. nurse me. 

nurse: you, doctor? 

doctor: me 

doctor: doctor. you mr. burtenshaw. she nurse. 

man: but my wife, nurse. 

doctor: your wife not nurse. she nurse. your wife patient. be patient. she nurse. your wife. me doctor. yew tree. u-trecht. u-trillo, u thant, euphemism. me doctor. 

doctor: albatross! 

<scene historical impersonations>

gumby: i would like to meet someone of superior intelligence. 

second gumby: i would like to hear the sound of two bricks being bashed together. 

gumby: i would like to see john the babtist's impersonation of graham hill. 

voice over: yes, it's historical impersonations. when you in the present can make those in the past stars of the future. and here is your host for tonight - wally wiggin. 

wiggin: hello, good evening and welcome to historical impersonations. and we kick off tonight with cardinal richelieu and his impersonation of petula clark. 

richelieu: 'don't sleep in the subway darling and don't stand in the pouring rain'. 

wiggin: cardinal richelieu - sixteen stone of pure man. and now your favourite roman emperor julius caesar as eddie waring. 

caesar: tota gallia divisa est in tres partes wigan, hunslett and hull kingston rovers. 

wiggin: well done indeed, julius caesar, a smile, a conquest and a dagger up your strap. our next challenger comes all the way from the crimea. it's the very lovely florence nightingale as brian london. 

wiggin: and now for our most ambitious attempt tonight - all the way from moscow in the uss of r - ivan the terrible as a sales assistant in freeman, hardy and willis. 

wiggin: and now w. g. grace as a music box. 

none: animation: still picture of w. g. grace. slowly his head starts to revolve as a musical box plays swiss-type music. 

none: cut back to wiggin. 

wiggin: and now it's france's turn. one of their top statesmen, napoleon as the r101 disaster. 

wiggin: and now it's request time. 

gumby: i would like to see john the baptist's impersonation of graham hill. 

wiggin: and now a short intermission during which marcel marceau will impersonate a man walking against the wind. 

wiggin: and now marcel will mime a man being struck about the head by a sixteen-ton weight. 

<scene quiz programme - 'wishes'>

none: cut to interviewer and two small boys. 

interviewer: what's your name? 

eric: eric. 

interviewer: would you like to have a sixteen-ton weight dropped on top of you, eric? 

eric: don't know. 

interviewer: how about you? 

michael: i want to have. 

interviewer: what do you want to have? 

michael: i want to have... i want to have racquel welch dropped on top of me. 

interviewer: dropped on top of you. 

michael: oh yes, not climbing. 

eric: she's got a big bottom. 

interviewer: and what's your name? 

trevor: trevor atkinson. 

interviewer: and how old are you, trevor? 

trevor: i'm forty-two. 

interviewer: are you a friend of trevor's? 

city gent: yes, we're all colleagues from the empire and general insurance company. 

interviewer: and what do you do? 

city gent: well i deal mainly with mortgage protection policies, but i also do certain types of life assurance. 

interviewer: now if you and your pal had one big wish, trevor, what would you like to see on television? 

trevor: i'd like to see more fairy stories about the police. 

fairy: and so you shall. 

policeman: yes, we in special crime squad have been using wands for almost a year now. you find it's easy to make yourself invisible. you can defy time and space, and you can turn violent criminals into frogs. something which you could never do with the old truncheons. 

<scene 'probe-around' on crime>

first interviewer: yes, tonight 'probe around' takes a look at crime... 

second interviewer: i'm sorry about that, but i always introduce this programme, not him. 

second interviewer: yes, tonight 'probe around' takes a look at crime. is it true that the police are using dachshunds to combat the crime wave? and can the head of the vice squad turn himself into an albatross whenever he wants to? just what are the police up to? 

policeman: oh, i'm up to page 39, where peter pan first manifests himself. 

second interviewer: with me now is inspector harry h 'snapper' organs of 'h' division. 

organs: good evening. 

interviewer: er, inspector, i believe you are encouraging magic in the police force? 

organs: that is correct. 

organs: the criminal mind is a strange and contorted one. good evening. the mind is subject to severe mental stresses. good evening. guilt fears abound, good evening. in the subconscious in this state, one of our lads, with a fair training in the black arts can scare the fertilizer out of them. 

interviewer: just how are the police combating the increase with the use of the occult? ex-king zog of albania reports ... 

interviewer: well we seem to have lost ex-king zog there, but who cares. just what kinds of magic are the police introducing into their crime prevention techniques? 

second policeman: up yours? what a rude ouija board! 

<scene stonehenge>

chief constable: now this is the kind of thing that gives the police a bad name, sergeant. 

sergeant: i know, sir. 

chief constable: yes, beryl? 

<scene mr attila the hun>

beryl: attila the hun to see you, sir. 

chief constable: who? 

beryl: attila the hun, sir. 

chief constable: oh botherkins! er, constable, go and see to him will you? 

sergeant: what! in this dress? 

chief constable: oh all right, i'll go. 

sergeant: oh, i have got a little green pinny i could wear... 

chief constable: no, no, no, i'll go. you stay here. 

sergeant: oh goody! i can get on with the ironing. 

chief constable: right where is he? 

beryl: over there, sir. 

chief constable: right, er, all right sergeant leave this to me. er, now then sir, you are attila the hun. 

attila the hun: that's right, yes. a. t. hun. my parents were mr and mrs norman hun, but they had a little joke when i was born. 

chief constable: yes well, mr hun ... 

attila: oh! call me 'the', for heaven's sake! 

chief constable: oh well, the... what do you want to see us about? 

attila: i've come to give myself up. 

chief constable: what for? 

attila: looting, pillaging and sacking a major city. 

chief constable: i beg your pardon? 

attila: looting, pillaging, sacking a major city, and i'd like nine thousand other charges to be taken into consideration, please. 

chief constable: i say, excuse me, mr hun. 

chief constable: have you any objection to taking a breath test? 

attila: oh, no. no, no, no, no. 

chief constable: right, er, sergeant will you bring the hunalyser, please? 

beryl: here we are, sir. 

chief constable: er, how's it work? 

beryl: well he breathes into it, sir, and the white crystals turn lime green. then he is attila the hun, sir. 

chief constable: i see. right. would you mind breathing into this mr hun? 

attila: right. 

chief constable: what if nothing happens, sergeant? 

beryl: he's alexander the great! 

chief constable: ha, ha! caught you, mr a. t. great! 

attila: oh curses! curses! i thought i was safe, disguised as attila the hun. 

chief constable: oh perhaps so, but you made one fatal mistake... you see, this wasn't a hunalyser... it was an alexander the greatalyser take him away, beryl! 

first voice over: dear sir, i object very strongly to that last scene, and to the next letter. 

second voice over: dear sir, i object to being objected to by the last letter, before my drift has become apparent. i spent many years in india during the last war and am now a part-time notice board in a prominent public school. yours etc., brigadier zoe la rue (deceased). ps aghhh! 

third voice over: dear sir, when i was at school, i was beaten regularly every thirty minutes, and it never did me any harm - except for psychological maladjusunent and blurred vision. yours truly, flight lieutenant ken frankenstein (mrs). 

<scene psychiatry - silly sketch>

receptionist: dr larch ... there's a mr phelps to see you. 

psychiatrist: er, nurse! 

receptionist: yes? 

psychiatrist: er, you don't think you should make it clear that i'm a psychiatrist? 

receptionist: what? 

psychiatrist: well, i could be any type of doctor. 

receptionist: well i can't come in and say 'psychiatrist larch' or 'dr larch who is a psychiatrist'. oh, anyway look, it's written on the door. 

psychiatrist: that's outside. 

receptionist: well, i don't care, you'll just have to do it yourself. 

psychiatrist: er, come in. 

phelps: bow, wow, wow. 

psychiatrist: ah mr phelps. come on in, take a seat. now what seems to be the matter? 

phelps: no, no, no. no. no. 

psychiatrist: i'm sorry? 

phelps: oh can't you do better than that? i mean it's so predictable i've seen it a million times. knock, knock, knock come in, ah mr phelps take a seat. i've seen it and seen it. 

psychiatrist: well look will you please sit down and do your first line. 

phelps: no. no. i've had enough. i've had enough. 

psychiatrist: i can't even get it started. 

phelps: albatross! 

psychiatrist: shut up! oh it drives me mad. 

notlob: a mad psychiatrist, that'd be new. 

psychiatrist: next please. 

psychiatrist: cross the threshold, arrive, ingress, gain admittance, infiltrate. 

psychiatrist: ah mr notlob, ah park your hips, on the sitting device. 

notlob: it is a mad psychiatrist. 

psychiatrist: i'm not. i'm not. come on in. take a seat. what's, what's the matter? 

psychiatrist: now what's the matter? 

notlob: well i keep hearing guitars playing and people singing when there's no one around. 

psychiatrist: yes, well this is not at all uncommon. in certain mental states we find that auditory hallucinations occur which are of a most ... 

psychiatrist: is that 'we're all going to the zoo tomorrow'? 

notlob: yes. yes. 

psychiatrist: is it always that? 

notlob: no. 

psychiatrist: well that's something. 

notlob: but it's mainly folk songs. 

psychiatrist: oh my god. 

notlob: last night i had 'i'll never fall in love again' for six hours. 

psychiatrist: well look, i think i'd better have a second opinion on this. i want you to see a colleague of mine, a specialist in these sort of things, who has an office very much like this one as a matter of fact. 

<scene operating theatre (squatters)>

surgeon: brr brr 

surgeon: i'm afraid i'm going to have to operate. it's nothing to worry about although it is extremely dangerous. i shall be juggling with your life, i shall be playing ducks and drakes with your very existence, i shall be running me mitts over the pith of your marrow. yes! these hands, these fingers, these sophisticated organs of touch, these bunches of five, these maulers, these german bands that have pulled many a moribund unfortunate back from the very brink of lazarus's box. no, it was pandora's box wasn't it? well anyway these mitts have earned yours truly a lot of bread. so if you'll just step through here i'll slit you up a treat. 

notlob: what? 

surgeon: mr notlob, there's nothing wrong with you that an expensive operation can't prolong. 

surgeon: right, i'm ready to make the incision. knife please, sister 

surgeon: oh what a great slit. now, gentlemen, i am going to open the slit. 

squatter: too much man, groovy, great scene. great light show, baby. 

surgeon: what are you doing in there? 

squatter: we're doing our own thing, man. 

surgeon: have you got mr nottob's permission to be in there? 

squatter: we're squatters, baby. 

surgeon: what? 

squatter: don't get uptight, man. join the scene and other phrases. money isn't real. 

surgeon: it is where i'm standing and it blows my mind, young lad. 

surgeon: good lord! is that a nude woman? 

squatter: she's doing an article on us for 'nova', man. 

girl: hi everyone. are you part of the scene? 

surgeon: are you rolling your own jelly babies in there? 

notlob: what's going on? who are they? 

surgeon: that's what we are trying to find out. 

notlob: what are they doing in my stomach? 

surgeon: we don't know. are they paying you any rent? 

notlob: of course they're not paying me rent! 

squatter: you're not furnished, you fascist. 

notlob: get them out! 

surgeon: i can't. 

notlob: get them out. 

surgeon: no i can't. not, not without a court order. 

first policeman: you are hereby ordered to vacate mr notlob forthwith. and or. 

squatter: push off, fuzz. 

policeman: right, that's it, we're going in. release the vicious dogs. 

none: animation: 

animated character: what a terrible way to end a series. why couldn't it end with something like this? 

voice over: when this series returns it will be put out on monday mornings as a test card and will be described by 'radio times' as a history of irish agriculture. 

<scene >

voice over: and now for something completely different. 

it's man: it's... 

<scene 'face the press'>

none: cut to studio: interviewer in chair. 

interviewer: hello. tonight on 'face the press' we're going to examine two different views of contemporary things. on my left is the minister for home affairs 

interviewer: good evening. minister, may i put the first question to you? in your plan, 'a better britain for us', you claimed that you would build 88,000 million, billion houses a year in the greater london area alone. in fact, you've built only three in the last fifteen years. are you a bit disappointed with this result? 

minister: no, no. i'd like to answer this question if i may in two ways. firstly in my normal voice and then in a kind of silly high-pitched whine... you see housing is a problem really... 

interviewer: well, while the minister is answering this question i'd just like to point out the minister's dress has been made entirely by hand from over three hundred pieces of arabian shot silk 

interviewer: especially created for the minister by vargar's of paris. the low slim-line has been cut off-the-shoulder to heighten the effect of the minister's fine bone structure. well i think the minister is coming to the end of his answer now so let's go back over and join the discussion. thank you very much minister. today saw the appointment of a new head of... 

minister: don't i say any more? 

interviewer: no fear! today saw the appointment of a new head of allied bomber command - air chief marshal sir vincent 'kill the japs' forster. he's in our birmingham studio... 

sir vincent: hello sailors! listen, guess what. the minister of aviation has made me head of the raf ola pola. 

<scene new cooker sketch>

man: hello. mrs rogers? 

mrs pinnet: no. ooh i must be in the wrong house, 

sir vincent: so from now on we're going to do things my way. for a start david hockney is going to design the bombs. and i've seen the plans... 

mrs pinnet: that must be the new gas cooker. 

first gas man: morning. mrs g. crump? 

mrs pinnet: no - mrs g. pinnet. 

first gas man: this is 46 egernon crescent? 

mrs pinnet: no - road. egernon road. 

first gas man: road, yes, says here. yeah. right, could i speak to mrs g. crump please? 

mrs pinnet: oh there's nobody here of that name. it's mrs g. pinnet. 46 egernon road. 

first gas man: well it says 'crump' here. don't it, harry? 

second gas man: yeah - it's on the invoice. 

first gas man: yeah, definitely crump. 

mrs pinnet: well there must have been a mistake, because the address is right, and that's definitely the cooker i ordered - a blue and white cookeasi. 

first gas man: well you can't have this. this is crump. 

mrs pinnet: oh dear, what are we going to do? 

first gas man: well i don't know. what we can do for you is take it back to the depot, get a transfer slip from crump to pinnet, and put it on a special delivery. 

second gas man: yeah - that's best. we'll special it for you, we'll get it down there today and you'll get it back in ten weeks. 

mrs pinnet: ten weeks! blimey, can't you just leave this one? 

first gas man: what this? what leave it here? 

mrs pinnet: yes. 

first gas man: well i dunno. i suppose we could. 

second gas man: oh, but she'd have to fill out a temporary despatch note. 

first gas man: yeah we could leave it on a temporary despatch note. 

mrs pinnet: well that's sorted out then. what a mess, isn't it. 

first gas man: i know, it's ridiculous really, but there you are. glad we could be of such a help. right, would you sign it down there please, mrs crump? 

mrs pinnet: pinnet. 

first gas man: pinnet. listen, just for the books make it a bit easier, could you sign it crump-pinnet. 

mrs pinnet: right. 

first gas man: right. thank you very much, dear. the cooker's yours. right. thank you very much, dear. right. 

first gas man: sorry about the bother... but there you are ... you know ... cheerio! 

second gas man: cheerio, mrs crump! 

mrs pinnet: heh, excuse me! cooey! er, can you put it in the kitchen? 

first gas man: you what? 

mrs pinnet: well i can't cook on it unless it's connected up. 

first gas man: oh we didn't realize you had an installation invoice. 

second gas man: an mi. 

first gas man: no, we can't touch it without an mi, you see. 

second gas man: or an r16. 

third gas man: if it's a special. 

second gas man: nah - it's not special ... the special's back at the depot. 

first gas man: no, the special's the same as installation invoice. 

third gas man: so it's an r16. 

mrs pinnet: what's an installation invoice? 

first gas man: a pink form from reading. 

mrs pinnet: oh - we wondered what that was. now these are the forms. 

first gas man: that's the one, love. yeah, this should be all i need. hang on. this is for pinnet. mrs g. pinnet. 

mrs pinnet: that's right. i'm mrs g. pinnet. 

first gas man: well we've got crump-pinnet on the invoice. 

mrs pinnet: well shall i sign it crump-pinnet then? 

first gas man: no, no, no - not an mi - no. 

second gas man: no - that's from area service at reading. 

fourth gas man: no, cheltenham isn't it? 

second gas man: no, not this side of the street. 

mrs pinnet: look i just want it connected up. 

third gas man: what about london office? 

first gas man: well they haven't got the machinery. 

second gas man: not now. 

fifth gas man: what! the hounslow depot? 

fourth gas man: no - they're still on standard pressure. 

mrs pinnet: but surely they can connect up a gas cooker? 

first gas man: oh yeah, we could connect it up, love, but not unless it's an emergency. 

mrs pinnet: but this 

mrs pinnet: is 

mrs pinnet: an emergency. 

first gas man: no it's not. an emergency is 290... 'where there is actual or apparent loss of combustible gaseous substances'. 

second gas man: yeah, it's like a leak. 

third gas man: no - that's valve adjustment. 

mrs pinnet: but there can't be a leak unless you've connected it up. 

first gas man: no, quite. we'd have to turn it on. 

mrs pinnet: well can't you turn it on 

mrs pinnet: and 

mrs pinnet: connect it up? 

first gas man: no. but what we can do, and this is between you and me, i shouldn't really be telling you this, we'll turn your gas on, make a hole in your pipe, you ring hounslow emergency, they'll be around here in a couple of days. 

mrs pinnet: what, a house full of gas! i'll be dead by then 

first gas man: oh well, in that case you'd have the south east area manager round here like a shot. 

mrs pinnet: really? 

first gas man: ah yes. 'one or more persons overcome by fumes', you'd have head office, holbom, round here. 

first gas man: yes. that's murder you see. 

second gas man: or suicide. 

fifth gas man: no. that's s42. 

second gas man: oh. 

fifth gas man: no - central area and southall marketing division, they're both on the s42 now. 

mrs pinnet: and they'd be able to connect it up? 

first gas man: oh - they'd do the lot for you, love. 

mrs pinnet: and they'd come round this afternoon? 

first gas man: ... well what is it now... 11:30... murder... they'll be round here by two. 

mrs pinnet: oh well that's wonderful. 

first gas man: oh well, right love, if you'd like to lie down here. 

mrs pinnet: all right. 

first gas man: okay harry. 

second gas man: okay. gas on. 

first gas man: right, deep breaths love. ring head office would you norman... 

fourth gas man: shall i go through maintenance? 

fifth gas man: no, you'd better go through deptford maintenance. 

sixth gas man: peckham's on a 207 .... . 

voices: ... that's lewisham. what about tottenham? no that would be a 5.4.. what about lewisham? it's central isn't it? or ruislip... 

<scene tobacconists (prostitute advert)>

customer: good morning. 

shopkeeper: good morning, sir. can i help you? 

customer: help me? yeah, i'll say you can help me. 

shopkeeper: yes, sir? 

customer: i come about your advert - 'small white pussy cat for sale. excellent condition'. 

shopkeeper: ah. you wish to buy it? 

customer: that's right. just for the hour. only i aint gonna pay more'n a fiver cos it aint worth it. 

shopkeeper: well it's come from a very good home - it's house trained. 

customer: chest of drawers? chest. drawers. i'd like some chest of drawers please. 

shopkeeper: yes, sir. 

customer: does it go? 

shopkeeper: er, it's over there in the corner. 

customer: oh. 

customer: pram for sale. any offers. i'd like a bit of pram please. 

shopkeeper: ah yes, sir. that's in good condition. 

customer: oh good, i like them in good condition, eh? eh? 

shopkeeper: yes, here it is you see. 

customer: babysitter. no, it's a babysitter. babysitter? 

shopkeeper: babysitter. 

customer: babysitter - i don't want a babysitter. be a blood donor - that's it. i'd like to give some blood please, argh! 

customer: blond prostitute will indulge in any sexual activity for four quid a week. what does that mean? 

<scene the ministry of silly walks>

city gent: 'times' please. 

shopkeeper: oh yes sir, here you are. 

city gent: thank you. 

shopkeeper: cheers. 

minister: good morning. i'm sorry to have kept you waiting, but i'm afraid my walk has become rather sillier recently, and so it takes me rather longer to get to work. 

minister: now then, what was it again? 

man: well sir, i have a silly walk and i'd like to obtain a government grant to help me develop it. 

minister: i see. may i see your silly walk? 

man: yes, certainly, yes. 

minister: that's it, is it? 

man: yes, that's it, yes. 

minister: it's not particularly silly, is it? i mean, the right leg isn't silly at all and the left leg merely does a forward aerial half turn every alternate step. 

man: yes, but i think that with government backing i could make it very silly. 

minister: coffee? 

man: yes please. 

minister: now mrs two-lumps, would you bring us in two coffees please? 

intercom voice: yes, mr teabag. 

minister: ... out of her mind. now the japanese have a man who can bend his leg back over his head and back again with every single step. while the israelis... ah, here's the coffee. 

minister: thank you - lovely. 

minister: you're really interested in silly walks, aren't you? 

man: oh rather. yes. 

minister: well take a look at this, then. 

minister: now mr pudey. i'm not going to mince words with you. i'm going to offer you a research fellowship on the anglo-french silly walk. 

man: la marche futile? 

first frenchman: bonjour ... et maintenant ... comme d'habitude, au sujet du le marché commun. et maintenant, je vous presente, encore une fois, mon ami, le pouf célèbre, jean-brian zatapathique. 

second frenchman: merci, mon petit chou-chou brian trubshawe. et maintenant avec les pieds à droite, et les pieds au gauche, et maintenant l'anglais-française marche futile, et voilà 

<scene the piranha brothers>

voice over: and now a choice of viewing on bbc television. 

voice over: just started on bbc2, the semi final of episode 3 of 'kierkegaard's journals', staring richard chamberlain, peggy mount and billy bremner, and on bbc1, 'ethel the frog' 

presenter: good evening. on 'ethel the frog' tonight we look at violence. the violence of british gangland. last tuesday a reign of terror was ended when the notorious piranha brothers, doug and dinsdale 

presenter: an up-and-coming eastend boxer. doug was bornin february 1929 and dinsdale two weeks later; and again a week after that. their next door neighbour was mrs april simnel. 

mrs simmel: kipling road was a typical sort of eastend street, people were in and out of each other's houses with each other's property all day. they were a cheery lot. 

interviewer: was it a terribly violent area? 

mrs simmel: oh ho......yes. cheerful and violent. i remember doug was very keen on boxing, until he learned to walk, then he took up putting the boot in the groin. oh he was very interested in that. his mother had such trouble getting him to come in for his tea. he'd be out there putting his little boot in, you know, bless him. you know kids were very different then. they didn't have their heads filled with all this cartesian dualism. 

voice over: at the age of fifteen doug and dinsdale started attending the ernest pythagoras primary school in clerkenwell. 

interviewer: anthony viney. you taught the piranha brothers english. what do you remember most about them? 

interviewer: ...anthoney viney. 

presenter: when the piranhas left school they were called up but were found by an army board to be too unstable even for national service. denied the opportunity to use their talents in the service of their country, they began to operate what they called 'the operation'. they would select a victim and then threaten to beat him up if he paid the so-called protection money. four months later they started another operation which the called 'the other operation'. in this racket they selected another victim and threatened 

presenter: not 

presenter: didn't 

presenter: pay them. one month later they hit upon 'the other other operation'. in this the victim was threatened that if he didn't pay them, they would beat him up. this for the piranha brothers was the turning point. 

organs: doug and dinsdale piranha now formed a gang, which the called 'the gang' and used terror to take over night clubs, billiard halls, gaming casinos and race tracks. when they tried to take over the mcc they were for the only time in their lives, slit up a treat. as their empire spread however, we in q division were keeping tabs on their every move by reading the colour supplements. 

presenter: a small-time operator who fell foul of dinsdale piranha was vince snetterton-lewis. 

vince: well one day i was sitting at home threatening the kids, and i looked out of the hole in the wall and sees this tank drive up and one of dinsdale's boys gets out and he comes up, all nice and friendly like, and says dinsdale wants to have a talk with me. so he chains me to the back of the tank and takes me for a scrape round to dinsdale's. and dinsdale's there in the conversation pit with doug and charles paisley, the baby crusher, and a couple of film producers and a man they called 'kierkegaard', who just sat there biting the heads of whippets and dinsdale sayd 'i hear you've been a naughty boy clement' and he splits me nostrils open and saws me leg off and pulls me liver out, and i said my name's not clement and then he loses his temper and nails my head to the floor. 

interviewer: he nailed your head to the floor? 

vince: at first, yeah 

presenter: another man who had his head nailed to the floor was stig o' tracey. 

interviewer: stig, i've been told dinsdale piranha nailed your head to the floor. 

stig: no, no. never, never. he was a smashing bloke. he used to give his mother flowers and that. he was like a brother to me. 

interviewer: but the police have film of dinsdale actually nailing your head to the floor. 

stig: oh yeah, well - he did that, yeah. 

interviewer: why? 

stig: well he had to, didn't he? i mean, be fair, there was nothing else he could do. i mean, i had transgressed the unwritten law. 

interviewer: what had you done? 

stig: er... well he never told me that. but he gave me his word that it was the case, and that's good enough for me with old dinsy. i mean, he didn't want to nail my head to the floor. i had to insist. he wanted to let me off. there's nothing dinsdale wouldn't do for you. 

interviewer: and you don't bear him any grudge? 

stig: a grudge! old dinsy? he was a real darling. 

interviewer: i understand he also nailed your wife's head to a coffee table. isn't that right mrs o' tracey? 

mrs o' tracey: oh, no. no. no. 

stig: yeah, well, he did do that. yeah, yeah. he was a cruel man, but fair 

interviewer: vince, after he nailed your head to the floor, did you ever see him again 

vince: yeah.....after that i used to go round his flat every sunday lunchtime to apologize and we'd shake hands and then he'd nail my head to the floor 

interviewer: every sunday? 

vince: yeah but he was very reasonable about it. i mean one sunday when my parents were coming round for tea, i asked him if he'd mind very much not nailing my head to the floor that week and he agreed and just screwed my pelvis to a cake stand. 

man: he was the only friend i ever had. 

presenter: clearly dinsdale inspired tremendous loyalty and terror amongst his business associates, but what was he really like? 

gloria: i walked out with dinsdale on many occasions and found him a most charming and erudite companion. he was wont to introduce one to eminent persons, celebrated american singers, members of the aristocracy and other gang leaders. 

interviewer: how had he met them? 

gloria: through his work for charity. he took a warm interest in boys' clubs, sailors' homes, choristers' associations, scouting jamborees and of course the household cavalry. 

interviewer: was there anything unusual about him? 

gloria: i should say not. dinsdale was a perfectly normal person in every way. except is as much as he was convinced that he was being watched by a giant hedgehog whom he referred to as spiny norman. 

interviewer: how big was norman supposed to be? 

gloria: normally he was wont to be about twelve feet from nose to tail, but when dinsdale was 

gloria: very 

gloria: depressed norman could be anything up to eight hundred yards long. when norman was about, dinsdale would go very quiet and his nose would swell up and his teeth would start moving about and he'd become very violent and claim that he'd laid stanley baldwin. dinsdale was a gentleman. and what's more he knew how to treat a female impersonator. 

criminologist: it is easy for us to judge dinsdale piranha too harshly. after all he only did what many of us simply dream of doing... 

criminologist: i'm sorry. after all a murderer is only an extroverted suicide. dinsdale was a looney, but he was a happy looney. lucky bastard. 

presenter: most of the strange tales concern dinsdale, but what about doug? one man who met him was luigi vercotti. 

vercotti: well, i had been running a successful escort agency - high class, no really, high class girls - we didn't have any of that. that was right out. and i decided. 

vercotti: anyway i decided then to open a high-class night club for the gentry at biggleswade with international cuisine, cooking, top-line acts, and not a cheap clip joint for picking up tarts, that was right out, i deny that completely, and one night dinsdale walked in with a couple of big lads, one of whom was carrying a tactical nuclear missile. they said i'd bought one of their fruit machines and would i pay for it. 

interviewer: how much did they want? 

vercotti: three quarters of a million pounds. then they went out. 

interviewer: why didn't you call the police? 

vercotti: well i had noticed that the lad with the thermo-nuclear device was the chief constable for the area. anyway a week later they came back, said that the cheque had bounced and that i had to see doug. 

interviewer: doug? 

vercotti: doug 

vercotti: i was terrified of him. everyone was terrified of doug. i've seen grown men pull their own heads off rather than see doug. even dinsdale was frightened of doug. 

interviewer: what did he do? 

vercotti: he used sarcasm. he knew all the tricks, dramatic irony, metaphor, bathos, puns, parody, litotes and satire. 

presenter: by a combination of violence and sarcasm, the piranha brothers by february 1966 controlled london and the south east. in february, though, dinsdale made a big mistake. 

gloria: latterly dinsdale had become increasingly worried about spiny norman. he had come to the conclusion that norman slept in an aeroplane hangar at luton airport. 

presenter: and so on february 22nd 1966, at luton airport... 

presenter: even the police began to sit up and take notice. 

organs: the piranhas realized they had gone too far and that the hunt was on. they went into hiding and i decided on a subtle approach, viz some form of disguise, as the old helmet and boots are a bit of a giveaway. luckily my years with bristol rep. stood me in good stead, as i assumed a bewildering variety of disguises. i tracked them to cardiff, posing as the reverend smiler egret. hearing they'd gone back to london, i assumed the identity of a pork butcher, brian stoats. 

organs: in 'man of la mancha' which the 'bristol evening post' described as 'a glittering performance of rare perception', although the 'bath chronicle' was less than enthusiastic. in fact it gave me a right panning. i quote... 

voice over: 'as for the performance of superintendent harry "snapper" organs as sancho panza, the audience were bemused by his high-pitched welsh accent and intimidated by his abusive ad-libs.' 

organs: 'the 'western daily news' said...... 

voice over: 'sancho panza (mr organs) spoilt an otherwise impeccably choreographed rape scene by his unscheduled appearance and persistent cries of "what's all this then?".' 

policeman: never mind, snapper, love, you can't win 'em all 

organs: true constable. could i have my eye-liner please? 

second policeman: telegram for you, love. 

organs: good-oh. bet it's from binkie. 

second policeman: those flowers are for sergant lauderdale - from the gentleman waiting outside 

organs: oh good 

man: thirty seconds, superintendent. 

organs: oh blimey, i'm on. is me hat straight, constable? 

policeman: oh it's fine 

organs: right here we go then, hawkins. 

policeman: oh, merde, superintendent. 

organs: good luck, then. 

john: well, that's all for now and so until next week... 

<scene man-powered flight>

announcer: and now for something completely different. 

it's man: it's... 

<scene the spanish inquisition>

lady mountback: come in. 

none: enter reg, cap in hand. 

reg: trouble at mill. 

lady mountback: oh no. what sort of trouble? 

reg: one on't cross beams gone owt askew on treddle. 

lady mountback: pardon? 

lady mountback: i don't understand what you're saying. 

reg: one of the cross beams has gone out askew on the treddle. 

lady mountback: well what on earth does that mean? 

reg: i 

reg: don't know. mr wentworth just told me to come in here and say that there was trouble at the mill, that's all - i didn't expect a kind of spanish inquisition. 

ximinez: nobody expects the spanish inquisition! our chief weapon is surprise...surprise and fear...fear and surprise.... our two weapons are fear and surprise...and ruthless efficiency.... our 

ximinez: three 

ximinez: four 

ximinez: amongst 

reg: i didn't expect a kind of spanish inquisition. 

ximinez: nobody expects the spanish inquisition! amongst our weaponry are such diverse elements as fear, surprise, ruthless efficiency, and an almost fanatical devotion to the pope, and nice red uniforms - oh damn! 

ximinez: i can't say it, you'll have to say it. 

biggles: what? 

ximinez: you'll have to say the bit about 'our chief weapons are ...' 

biggles: i couldn't do that... 

biggles: er.... nobody...um.... 

ximinez: expects. 

biggles: expects... nobody expects the...um...the spanish...um... 

ximinez: inquisition. 

biggles: i know...i know! nobody expects the spanish inquisition. in fact, those who do expect... 

ximinez: our chief weapons are... 

biggles: our chief weapons are...um...er... 

ximinez: surprise. 

biggles: surprise and... 

ximinez: stop. stop there! stop there. whew! our chief weapon is surprise, blah, blah, blah, blah. cardinal, read the charges. 

fang: you are hereby charged that you did on diverse dates commit heresy against the holy church. my old man said follow the... 

biggles: that's enough. 

biggles: now, how do you plead? 

lady mountback: we're innocent. 

ximinez: ha! ha! ha! ha! ha! 

none: superimposed caption: 'diabolical laughter' 

biggles: we'll soon change your mind about that! 

none: superimposed caption: 'diabolical acting' 

ximinez: fear, surprise, and a most ruthless... 

ximinez: ooooh! now, cardinal, the rack! 

ximinez: you....right! tie her down. 

ximinez: right! how do you plead? 

lady mountback: innocent. 

ximinez: ha! right! cardinal, give the rack 

ximinez: give the rack a turn. 

biggles: i.... 

ximinez: . i know you can't. i didn't want to say anything. i just wanted to try and ignore your crass mistake. 

biggles: i... 

ximinez: it makes it all seem so stupid. 

biggles: shall i, um...? 

ximinez: oh, go on, just pretend for god's sake. 

bbc man: ah, hello, you don't know me, but i'm from the bbc. we were wondering if you'd come and answer the door in a sketch over there, in that sort of direction... you wouldn't have to do anything - just open the door and that's it. 

reg: oh, well all right, yes. 

bbc man: jolly good. come this way. 

bbc man: yes, we're on film at the moment you see. 

reg: it's a link, is it? 

bbc man: yes that's right, that sort of thing, yes, a link. it's all a bit zany - you know a bit madcap funster... frankly i don't fully understand it myself, the kids seem to like it. i much prefer des o'connor ... rolf harris ... tom jones, you know... 

reg: you do a lot of this sort of thing, do you? 

bbc man: quite a lot yes, quite a lot. i'm mainly in comedy. i'd like to be in programming planning actually, but unfortunately i've got a degree. 

johnson: joke, sir? guaranteed amusing. as used by the crowned heads of europe. has brought tears to the eyes of royalty. 'denmark has never laughed so much' - 'the stage'. nice little novelty number - 'a naughty humphrey' - breaks the ice at parties. put it on the table. press the button. it vomits. absolutely guaranteed. with refills. 'black soap' - leave it in the bathroom, they wash their hands, real fungus grows on the fingers. can't get it off for hours. guaranteed to break the ice at parties. frighten the elderly - real snakes. comedy hernia kit. plastic flesh wounds - just keep your friends in stitches. guaranteed to break the ice at parties. hours of fun with 'honeymoon delight' - empty it into their beds - real skunk juice. they won't forget 

johnson: their 

johnson: wedding night. sticks to the skin, absolutely waterproof, guaranteed to break the ice at parties. amuse your friends - cs gas canisters - smells, tastes and acts just like the real thing - can blind, maim or kill. or for drinks, why not buy a 'wicked willy' with a life-size winkle - serves warm beer. makes real cocktails. hours of amusement. or get the new pooh-pooh machine. embarrass your guests - completely authentic sound. or why not try a new 'naughty nightie' - put it on and it melts - just watch their faces. guaranteed to break the ice at naughty parties. go on, go on. 

reg: what? 

johnson: do the punchline. 

reg: what punchline? 

johnson: the punchline for this bit. 

reg: i don't know it. they didn't say anything about a punchline. 

johnson: oh! oh well in that case i'll be saying goodbye then, sir... goodbye then, sir. 

reg: what's the punchline? 

bbc man: punchline? i don't think there's a punchline scheduled, is there? where are we? a week 39.4 no, it's friday, isn't it - 39.7. oh ... here we are. oh! 

bbc man: ha, ha, ha, very good. ha, ha, ha, very good. what a good punchline. pity we missed that. still, never mind, we can always do it again. make a series out of it. now if you'll just sign there, i'll put this through to our contracts department and you should be hearing from them in a year or two. 

reg: can you give me a lift back? 

bbc man: ah - can do. but won't. we were wondering if we could possibly borrow your head for a piece of animation. 

bbc man: oh jolly good. thanks very much. you will get expenses. 

politician: gentlemen, our mp saw the pm this am and the pm wants more lsd from the pib by tomorrow am or pm at the latest. i told the pm's pps that am was nbg so tomorrow pm it is for the pm nem. con. give us a fag or i'll go spare. now, the fiscal deficit with regard to the monetary balance, the current financial year excluding invisible exports, but adjusted of course for seasonal variations and the incremental statistics of the fiscal and revenue arrangements for the forthcoming annual budgetary period terminating in april. 

first official: i think he's talking about taxation. 

politician: bravo, madge. well done. taxation is indeed the very nub of my gist. gentlemen, we have to find something new to tax. 

second official: i understood that. 

third official: if i might put my head on the chopping block so you can kick it around a bit, sir... 

politician: yes? 

third official: well most things we do for pleasure nowadays are taxed, except one. 

politician: what do you mean? 

third official: well, er, smoking's been taxed, drinking's been taxed but not ... thingy. 

politician: good lord, you're not suggesting we should tax... thingy? 

first official: poo poo's? 

third official: no. 

first official: thank god for that. excuse me for a moment. 

third official: no, no, no - thingy. 

second official: number ones? 

third official: no, thingy. 

politician: thingy! 

second official: ah, thingy. well it'll certainly make chartered accountancy a much more interesting job. 

<scene vox pops on tax>

gumby: ... oh! 

man in bowler hat: to boost the british economy i'd tax all foreigners living abroad. 

man in suit: i would tax the nude in my bed. no - not tax. what is the word? oh - 'welcome'. 

it's man: i would tax racquel welch. i've a feeling she'd tax me. 

first business man: bring back hanging and go into rope. 

second business man: i would cut off the more disreputable parts of the body and use the space for playing fields. 

man in cap: i would tax holiday snaps. 

<scene photos of uncle ted (spanish inquisition)>

dear old lady: this is uncle ted in front of the house. 

dear old lady: and the is the spanish inquisition hiding behind the coal shed. 

young lady: oh! i didn't expect a spanish inquisition. 

ximinez: nobody expects the spanish inquisition! 

voice over: 'in the early years of the sixteenth century, to combat the rising tide of religious unorthodoxy, the pope gave cardinal ximinez of spain leave to move without let or hindrance throughout the land, in a reign of violence, terror and torture that makes a smashing film. this was the spanish inquisition...' 

ximinez: now, old woman! you are accused of heresy on three counts. heresy by thought, heresy by word, heresy by deed, and heresy by action. 

ximinez: four 

ximinez: counts. do you confess? 

dear old lady: i don't understand what i'm accused of. 

ximinez: ha! then we shall 

ximinez: make 

ximinez: you understand...biggles! fetch...the cushions! 

biggles: here they are, lord. 

ximinez: now, old lady, you have one last chance. confess the heinous sin of heresy, reject the works of the ungodly - 

ximinez: two 

ximinez: three 

ximinez: last chances. you have three last chances, the nature of which i have divulged in my previous utterance. 

dear old lady: i don't know what you're talking about. 

ximinez: right! if that's the way you want it - cardinal! poke her with the soft cushions! 

ximinez: confess! confess! confess! 

biggles: it doesn't seem to be hurting her, my lord. 

ximinez: have you got all the stuffing up one end? 

biggles: yes, lord. 

ximinez: hm! she is made of harder stuff! cardinal fang - fetch...the comfy chair! 

fang: the comfy chair? 

ximinez: so you think you are strong because you can survive the soft cushions. well, we shall see. biggles! put her in the comfy chair! 

ximinez: is that really all it is? 

biggles: why, yes lord. 

ximinez: i see. i suppose we make it worse by shouting a lot, do we? confess, woman. confess! confess! 

ximinez: confess! confess! 

biggles: i confess! 

ximinez: not you! 

animation voice: i confess. 

ximinez: who was that? 

none: animation: 

voice over: and now for the very first time on the silver screen comes the film from two books which once shocked a generation. from emily brontë's 'wuthering heights' and from the 'international guide to semaphore code'. twentieth century vole presents 'the semaphore version of wuthering heights'. 

<scene 'julius caesar' on an aldis lamp>

voice over: from the pulsating pages of history, from the dark and furious days of imperial rome we bring you a story that shattered the world! a tale so gripping that they said it could not he filmed. a unique event in cinema history! julius caesar on an aldis lamp! 

voice over: from the makers of 'gunfight at the ok corral in morse code'. 

voice over: and the smoke-signal version of 'gentlemen prefer blondes'. 

<scene court scene (charades)>

judge: ladies and gentlemen of the jury, have you reached a verdict? 

foreman: we have m'lud. 

judge: and how do you find the defendant? 

judge: rope? string? 

counsel: point? 

clerk: belt? 

judge: tie? 

counsel: cravat? silk square? 

clerk: knot? 

judge: second word. 

judge: bird? 

clerk: swimmer? 

judge: breast stroke. 

counsel: brian phelps. 

judge: no, no, no, he was a diver. 

clerk: esther williams then. 

judge: no, no, don't be silly. how can you find someone 'not esther williams'. 

counsel: fish. 

counsel: fish wheeze. fish wheeze? 

judge: fish breathe. 

counsel: fish breathe, throat. 

judge: fish breathe, throat? gill! 

judge: second syllable. not gill. 

counsel: drink. 

clerk: sip? imbibe? 

judge: not gill ... cup? not gillcup! 

counsel: four words. 

foreman: first word shout? 

counsel: bellow? 

clerk: call? 

all: call! 

counsel: second word is very small. 

foreman: a? 

counsel: an? 

clerk: up? 

foreman: the? 

clerk: call the, third word: 

counsel: gill? 

member of jury: fish? 

clerk: adam's apple. 

clerk: sounds like neck? 

second counsel: next. 

foreman: call the ... next! 

clerk: fourth word, three syllables. first syllable ... ear? 

counsel: hear. can't hear. 

clerk: deaf!! call the next def-. 

counsel: bottom. 

clerk: seat? trouser? cheek? 

foreman: end! call the next defend-. 

clerk: call the next defendant! 

clerk: if i may charge you m'lud, you are charged m'lud that on the fourteenth day of june 1970, at the central criminal court, you did commit acts likely to cause a breach of the peace. how plead you m'lud, guilty or not guilty? 

judge kilbraken: not guilty. case not proven. court adjourned. 

judge: no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 

judge: no, you're in the dock, m'lud. 

judge kilbraken: i'm a judge, m'lud. 

judge: so am i, m'lud, so watch it. 

judge kilbraken: hah! call this a court. 

all: call this a court. call this a court..call this a court. 

judge: shut up. right now get on with the spiel. 

counsel: m'lud, and my other lud, the prosecution will endeavour to show m'lud, that m'lud - ah, not you m'lud, that m'lud, m'lud, while passing sentence at the central criminal court blotted his copy book. call exhibit q. 

judge: q? 

counsel: sorry did i say q? i meant a. sorry, call exhibit a. 

clerk: call exhibit a. 

counsel: exhibit a m'lud, miss rita thang, an artist's model, swedish accordion teacher and cane-chair sales lady, was found guilty under the rude behaviour act in the accused's court. the accused, m'lud, sentenced her to be taken from this place and brought round to his place. 

second counsel: objection, m'lud. 

judge kilbraken: objection sustained. 

judge: you shut up! objection overruled. 

counsel: the accused then commented on miss thang's bodily structure, made several not-at-all legal remarks on the subject of fun and then placed his robes over his head and began to emit low moans. 

judge: have you anything to say in your defense? 

judge kilbraken: i haven't had any for weeks. 

judge: oh no? what about that little number you've got tucked away in belsize park? 

judge kilbraken: oh, i never! 

judge: oh no. ho! ho! ho! 

judge kilbraken: all right then what about 8a woodford square? 

judge: you say anything about that and i'll do you for treason. 

counsel: m'lud if we could continue ... 

judge kilbraken: he's got a chinese bit there. 

judge: no, that's contempt of court. 

judge kilbraken: it was only a joke. 

judge: contempt of court. however, i'm not going to punish you, because we're so short of judges at the moment, what with all of them emigrating to south africa. i'm going tomorrow; i've got my ticket. get out there and get some decent sentencing done. ooh, england makes you sick. best i can manage here is life imprisonment. it's hardly worth coming in in the morning. now, south africa? you've got your cat of nine tails, you've got four death sentences a week, you've got cheap drinks, slave labour and a booming stock market. i'm off, i tell you. yes, i'm up to here with probation and bleeding psychiatric reports. that's it, i'm off. that's it. right. but i'm going to have one final fling before i leave, so i sentence you to be burnt at the stake. 

judge kilbraken: blimey! i didn't expect the spanish inquisition. 

ximinez: two, er, three to the old bailey please. 

biggles: look they've started the credits. 

ximinez: hurry. hurry. hurry. 

biggles: come on hurry. hurry! 

ximinez: there's the lighting credit, only five left. 

ximinez: hell, it's the producer - quick! 

ximinez: nobody expects the spa... 

ximinez: oh bugger! 

<scene >

girl: my, isn't it hot in here. 

announcer: and now for something completely different. 

announcer: and now for something more completely different... 

it's man: it's... 

<scene a bishop rehearsing>

none: cut back to the same group of animals minus the elk. birdsong etc. the elk's remains are smouldering. the owl explodes, pan away from the woodland clearing to an open field in which at a distance a bishop in full mitre and robes is pacing up and down holding a script. mr chigger in a suit approaches the bishop and we zoom in to hear their conversation. 

bishop: 'oh mr belpit your legs are so swollen' ... 

bishop: swollen 

bishop: 'oh mr belpit., .' 

mr chigger: excuse me, excuse me. i saw your advertisement for flying lessons and i'd like to make an application. 

bishop: nothing to do with me. i'm not in this show. 

mr chigger: oh i see. d'you ... d'you., . do you know about the flying lessons? 

bishop: nothing to do with me. i'm not in this show. this is show five - i'm not in until show eight. 

mr chigger: oh i see. 

bishop: i'm just learning my lines, you know. 'oh mr belpit, your legs...' 

mr chigger: bit awkward, i'm a bit stuck. 

bishop: yes, well. try over there. 

mr chigger: oh yes, thanks. thanks a lot. 

bishop: 'oh mr belpit' - not at all - 'your legs are so swollen'. 

mr chigger: excuse me, i saw your advertisement for flying lessons and i'd like to make an application. 

secretary: appointment? 

mr chigger: yes, yes. 

secretary: certainly. would you come this way, please. 

secretary: morning, mr jones, mr barnes. 

secretary: morning mrs wills. 

mrs wills: morning, luv. 

secretary's voice: just follow me. 

mr chigger's voice: oh thank you. 

secretary's voice: oh, be careful. 

mr chigger's voice: yes, nearly tripped. 

secretary's voice: be there soon. 

mr chigger's voice: good. it's a long way, isn't it? 

secretary's voice: oh, get hold of that - watch it. 

voice: morning. 

secretary's voice: morning. upstairs. be careful, it's very steep. almost there. 

secretary: morning. 

secretary: in here, please. 

mr chigger: thank you. 

mr chigger: hello, i saw your advertisement for flying lessons and i'd like to make an appointment. 

second secretary: well, mr anemone's on the phone at the moment, but i'm sure he won't mind if you go on in. through here. 

mr anemone: ah, won't be a moment. make yourself at home. 

mr anemone: missed. now mr er... 

mr chigger: chigger. 

mr anemone: mr chigger. so, you want to learn to fly? 

mr chigger: yes. 

mr anemone: right, well, up on the table, arms out, fingers together, knees bent... 

mr chigger: no, no, no. 

mr anemone: rotten. rotten. you're no bloody use at all. you're an utter bloody wash-out. you make me sick, you weed! 

mr chigger: now look here... 

mr anemone: all right, all right. i'll give you one more chance, get on the table... 

mr chigger: look, i came here to learn how to fly an aeroplane. 

mr anemone: a what? 

mr chigger: i came here to learn how to fly an aeroplane. 

mr anemone: 'oh, oh, no more buttered scones for me, mater. i'm off to play the grand piano'. 'pardon me while i fly my aeroplane.' now get on the table! 

mr chigger: look. no one in the history of the world has ever been able to fly like that. 

mr anemone: oh, i suppose mater told you that while you were out riding. well, if people can't fly what am i doing up here? 

mr chigger: you're on a wire. 

mr anemone: oh, a wire. i'm on a wire, am i? 

mr chigger: of course you're on a bloody wire. 

mr anemone: i am 

mr anemone: not 

mr anemone: on a wire. i am flying. 

mr anemone: i am flying. 

mr anemone: i'll show you whether i'm on a wire or not. give me the 'oop. 

mr chigger: what? 

mr anemone: oh, i don't suppose we know what an 'oop is. i suppose pater thought they were a bit common, except on the bleedin' croquet lawn. 

mr chigger: oh, a 

mr chigger: hoop 

mr chigger: . 

mr anemone: 'oh an 

mr anemone: hoop 

mr chigger: go on, right the way along. 

mr anemone: all right, all right, all right. 

mr anemone: . now, where's the bleeding wire, then? 

mr chigger: that hoop's got a hole in. 

mr anemone: oh eton and madgalene. the hoop has an hole in. of course it's got a hole in, it wouldn't be a hoop otherwise, would it, mush! 

mr chigger: no, there's a gap in the middle, there. 

mr anemone: oh, a gahp. a gahp in one's hhhhhoop. pardon me, but i'm off to play the grand piano. 

mr chigger: look, i can see you're on a wire - look, there it is. 

mr anemone: look, i told you, you bastard, i'm not on a wire. 

mr chigger: you are. there is. 

mr anemone: there isn't. 

mr chigger: is. 

mr anemone: isn't! 

mr chigger: is! 

mr anemone: isn't!! 

mr chigger: is!!! 

voice over: anyway, this rather pointless bickering went on for some time until... 

mr chigger: gosh, i am glad i'm a fully qualified arline pilot. 

balpa man: the british airline pilots association would like to point out that it takes a chap six years to become a fully qualified airline pilot, and not two. 

balpa man: thank you. i didn't want to seem a bit of an old fusspot just now you know, but it's just as easy to get these things right as they are easily found in the balpa handbook. oh, one other thing, in the sherlock holmes last week tommy cooper told a joke about a charter flight, omitting to point out that one must be a member of any organization that charters a plane for at least six months beforehand, before being able to take advantage of it. did rather spoil the joke for me, i'm afraid. 

balpa man: my wife just reminded me that on a recent 'high chapparal' kathy kirby was singing glibly about 'fly me to the stars' when of course there are no scheduled flights of this kind, or even chartered, available to the general public at the present moment, although of course, when they are balpa will be in the vanguard. or the trident. little joke for the chaps up at balpa house. and one other small point. why is it that these new lurex dancing tights go baggy at the knees after only a couple of evenings' fun? bring back the old canvas ones i say. it is incredible, isn't it, that in these days when man can walk on the moon and work out the most complicated hire purchase agreements, i still get these terrible headaches. well . .. i seem to have wandered a bit, but still, no harm done. jolly good luck. 

zanie: oh my god. oh, i'm terribly sorry. i thought this was the bally toilet. 

second pilot: this is the control cabin. 

zanie: oh i know that. i'm a flying man, you know... oh yes... bally stupid mistake... 

second pilot: cloud's heavy ... what's the reading? 

mr chigger: 4.8... steady. 

zanie: if they had all those dials in the toilet... there wouldn't be room for anything else, would there. 

mr chigger: hello, geneva this is roger five-o ... what is your cloud reading? hello, geneva... 

zanie: i wouldn't fancy flying one of those sitting on the toilet... i mean it'd take the glamour out of being a pilot, wouldn't it, ha ha, flying around the world sitting on a toilet. 

radio voice: geneva here. 4.9 ... heavy... over. 

mr chigger: serious? 

second pilot: no, not if it keeps at that level, no. 

zanie: mind you, if you did fly it from the toilet it would leave a lot more space up here, wouldn't it. 

zanie: aaaaaaaaaarrrggghhhhhh! 

zanie: bally piece of luck... 

second pilot: oh hello. everything all right at the back? 

hostess: yes, they're as quiet as dormice. 

second pilot: dormice? 

<scene hijacked plane (to luton)>

gunman: all right, don't anybody move ... except to control the aeroplane ... you can move a little to do that. 

hostess: can i move? 

gunman: yes, yes, yes. you can move a little bit. yes. sorry, i didn't mean to be so dogmatic when i came in. obviously you can all move a little within reason. there are certain involuntary muscular movements which no amount of self-control can prevent. and obviously any assertion of authority on my part, i've got to take that into account. 

second pilot: right. i mean one couldn't for example, stop one's insides from moving. 

gunman: no, no. good point, good point. 

second pilot: and the very fact that the plane is continuously vibrating means that we're all moving to a certain extent. 

gunman: and we're all moving our lips, aren't we? 

pilots: yes, yes. 

second pilot: absolutely. 

gunman: no, the gist of my meaning was that sudden... er... 

hostess: exaggerated movements ... 

gunman: exaggerated 

gunman: violent 

gunman: movements... are... are out. 

second pilot: well, that's the great thing about these modern airliners. i mean, i can keep this plane flying with only the smallest movement and pancho here doesn't have to move at all. 

gunman: oh, that's marvellous. 

hostess: and i don't really need to move either ... unless i get an itch or something... 

gunman: well that's wonderful ... 60% success, eh? 

gunman: anyway, bearing all that in mind, will you fly this plane to luton, please? 

second pilot: well, this is a scheduled flight to cuba. 

gunman: i know, i know, that's rather why i came in here with that point about nobody moving. 

first pilot: within reason. 

gunman: within reason - yes. i... er ... er... you know, i want you to fly this plane to luton ... please. 

second pilot: right, well i'd better turn the plane round then. stand by emergency systems. 

gunman: look i don't want to cause any trouble., 

second pilot: no, no, we'll manage, we'll manage. 

gunman: i mean, near luton will do, you know. harpenden, do you go near harpenden? 

first pilot: it's on the flight path. 

gunman: okay, well, drop me off there. i'll get a bus to luton. it's only twenty-five minutes. 

hostess: you can be in luton by lunchtime. 

gunman: oh, well that's smashing. 

first pilot: hang on! there's no airport at harpenden. 

gunman: oh well, look, forget it. forget it. i'll come to cuba, and get a flight back to luton from there. 

second pilot: well, we could lend you a parachute. 

gunman: no, no, no, no, no. i wouldn't dream of it... wouldn't dream of it... dirtying a nice, clean parachute. 

first pilot: i know - i know. there's a bale of hay outside basingstoke. we could throw you out. 

gunman: well, if it's all right. 

all: sure, yeah. 

gunman: not any trouble? 

pilots: none at all. 

gunman: that's marvellous. thank you very much. sorry to come barging in. 

hostess: bye-bye. 

gunman: thank you. bye. 

pilots: bye. 

gunman: thank you! 

hijacker: take this bus to cuba. 

voice over: from these glens and scars, the sound of the coot and the moorhen is seldom absent. nature sits in stern mastery over these rocks and crags. the rush of the mountain stream, the bleat of the sheep, and the broad, clear highland skies, reflected in turn and loch ... 

voice over: ... form the breathtaking backdrop against which ewan mcteagle writes such poems as 'lend us a quid till the end of the week'. 

voice over: but it was with more simple, homespun verses that mcteagle's unique style first flowered. 

mcteagle: if you could see your way to lending me sixpence. i could at least buy a newspaper. that's not much to ask anyone. 

voice over: one woman who remembers mcteagle as a young friend - lassie o'shen. 

lassie: mr meteagle wrote me two poems, between the months of january and april 1969... 

interviewer: could you read us one? 

lassie: och, i dinna like to... they were kinda personal... but i will. 

lassie: 'to ma own beloved lassie. a poem on her 17th birthday. lend us a couple of bob till thursday. i'm absolutely skint. but i'm expecting a postal order and i can pay you back as soon as it comes. love ewan.' 

limbo: since then, mcteagle has developed and widened his literary scope. three years ago he concerned himself with quite small sums - quick bits of ready cash: sixpences, shillings, but more recently he has turned his extraordinary literary perception to much larger sums - fifteen shillings, £4.12.6 ... even nine guineas ... but there is still nothing to match the huge sweep ... the majestic power of what is surely his greatest work: 'can i have fifty pounds to mend the shed?'. 

ian: can i have fifty pounds to mend the shed? 

ian: i'm right on my uppers. 

ian: i can pay you back 

ian: when this postal order comes from australia. 

ian: honestly. 

ian: hope the bladder trouble's getting better. 

ian: love, ewan. 

limbo: there seems to be no end to mcteagle's poetic invention. 'my new cheque book hasn't arrived' was followed up by the brilliantly allegorical 'what's twenty quid to the bloody midland bank?' and more recently his prizewinning poem to the arts council: 'can you lend me one thousand quid?' 

david: i think what mcteagle's pottery... er... poetry is doing is 

david: rejecting 

david: all the traditional cliches of modern pottery. no longer do we have to be content with keats's 'seasons of mists and mellow fruitfulness', wordsworth's 'i wandered lonely as a cloud' and milton's 'can you lend us two bob till tuesday'... 

highlander: as a highlander i would like to complain about some inaccuracies in the preceding film about the poet ewan mcteagle. although his name was quite clearly given as mcteagle, he was throughout wearing the cameron tartan. also i would like to point out that the balpa spokesman who complained about aeronautical inaccuracies was himself wearing a captain's hat, whereas he only had lieutenant's stripes on the sleeves of his jacket. also, in the inverness pantomime last christmas, the part of puss in boots was played by a native of new guinea with a plate in her lip, so that every time dick whittington gave her a french kiss, he got the back of his throat scraped. 

doctor: look, would you mind going away, i'm trying to examine this man. 

doctor: a doctor. actually, i'm a gynaecologist... but this is my lunchhour. 

none: animation: 

animation voice: i've a nasty feeling i 

animation voice: am 

animation voice: somebody's lunchhour. 

<scene psychiatrist milkman>

milkman: pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. good morning, madam, i'm a psychiatrist. 

lady: you look like a milkman to me. 

milkman: good. 

milkman: as a milkman... you spotted that - well done. 

lady: go away. 

milkman: now then, madam. i'm going to show you three numbers, and i want you to tell me if you see any similarity between them. 

lady: they're all number three. 

milkman: no. try again. 

lady: they're 

lady: all 

lady: number three? 

milkman: no. they're 

milkman: all 

milkman: right. now. i'm going to say a word, and i want you to say the first thing that comes into your head. how many pints do you want? 

lady: er, three? 

milkman: yogurt? 

lady: er... no. 

milkman: cream? 

lady: no. 

milkman: eggs? 

milkman: right. well, you're quite clearly suffering from a repressive libido complex, probably the product of an unhappy childhood, coupled with acute insecurity in adolescence, which has resulted in an attenuation of the libido complex. 

lady: you 

lady: are 

lady: a bloody milkman. 

milkman: don't you shout at me, madam, don't come that tone. now then, i must ask you to accompany me down to the dairy and do some aptitude tests. 

lady: i've got better things to do than come down to the dairy! 

milkman: mrs ratbag, if you don't mind me saying so, you are badly in need of an expensive course of psychiatric treatment. now i'm not going to say a trip to our dairy will cure you, but it will give hundreds of lower-paid workers a good laugh. 

lady: all right... but how am i going to get home? 

milkman: i'll run you there and back on my psychiatrist's float. 

lady: all right. 

lady: what are those? 

milkman: they're case histories. 

milkman: yes, sir? 

doctor: ah, good morning. i'm afraid our regular psychiatrist hasn't come round this morning ... and i've got an ego block which is in turn making my wife over-assertive and getting us both into a state of depressive neurosis. 

milkman: oh, i see, sir. who's your regular, sir? 

doctor: jersey cream psychiatrists. 

milkman: oh yes, i know them. 

milkman: right, well, er, what's your job, then? 

doctor: i'm a doctor. 

milkman: ... didn't i see you just now under a scotsman? 

doctor: yes, but i 

doctor: am 

doctor: a doctor. actually, i'm a gynaecologist but that was my lunchhour. 

milkman: remind you of?. 

doctor: two pints of cream. 

milkman: right... well i should definitely say you're suffering from a severe personality disorder, sir, sublimating itself in a lactic obsession which could get worse depending on how much money you've got. 

doctor: yes, yes, i see. and a pot of yogurt, please. 

<scene complaints>

dr cream: i would like to take this opportunity of complaining about the way in which these shows are continually portraying psychiatrists who make pat diagnoses of patients' problems without first obtaining their full medical history. 

milkman: mind you, that's just a pat diagnosis made without first obtaining your full medical history. 

man: i feel the time has come to complain about people who make rash complaints without first making sure that those complaints are justified. 

dr cream: are you referring to me? 

man: not necessarily, however, i would like to point out that the balpa spokesman was wearing the british psychiatric association dinner dance club cuff-links. 

dr cream: oh yes, i noticed that too. 

balpa man: these are not british psychiatric association dinner dance club cuff-links. 

man: sorry. 

balpa man: they are in fact british sugar corporation gilbert-and-sullivan society cuff-links. it is in fact a sort of in-joke with us lads here at balpa. i think the last speaker should have checked his facts before making his own rash complaint. 

dr cream: yes, that'll teach him. 

balpa man: however, i would just like to add a complaint about shows that have too many complaints in them as they get very tedious for the average viewer. 

another man: i'd like to complain about people who hold things up by complaining about people complaining. it's about time something was done about it. 

milkman: nurse! would you take mrs pim to see dr cream, please. 

milkmaid: certainly, doctor. walk this way, please. 

lady: oh, if i could walk that way i... 

milkman and milkmaid: sssssh! 

milkmaid: mrs pim to see you, dr cream. 

dr cream: ah yes. i just want another five minutes with audrey. could you show mrs pim into the waiting room, please. 

milkmaid: yes, doctor. 

dr cream: right, audrey. when did you first start thinking you were a cow? 

bishop: 'jeez, mr belpit your legs is all swollen'... 

<scene déjà vu>

boniface: good evening. tonight on 'it's the mind', we examine the phenomenon of déjà vu. that strange feeling we sometimes get that we've lived through something before, that what is happening now has already happened. tonight on 'it's the mind' we examine the phenomenon of déjà vu, that strange feeling we sometimes get that we've ... 

boniface: anyway, tonight on 'it's the mind' we examine the phenomenon of déjà vu, that strange... 

boniface: good evening. tonight on 'it's the mind' we examine the phenomenon of déjà vu, that strange feeling we someti... mes get ... that ... we've lived through something... 

boniface: good ... good evening. tonight on 'it's the mind' we examine the phenomenon of dddddddddddéjà vvvvvvvvuu, that extraordinary feeling... quite extraordinary... 

boniface: look, something's happening to me. i - i - um, i think i'd better go and see someone. goodnight. 

milkman: oi, haven't i seen you somewhere before? 

boniface: no, doctor, no. something very funny's happening to me. 

bishop: 'oh, mr belpit, your legs are so swollen.' 

dr cream: ah, come in. now what seems to be the matter? 

boniface: i have this terrible feeling of déjà vu. 

boniface: i have this terrible feeling of déjà vu.. 

<scene >

announcer: and now for something completely different. 

it's man: it's... 

none: animated titles. 

announcer: 'the bbc would like to apologize for the next announcement' 

<scene architect sketch>

gumbys: hello, and welcome to the show. without more ado, the first item is a sketch about architects, called the architects sketch...the architects sketch...the architects sketch... 

mr tid: gentlemen, we have two basic suggestions for the design of this... 

mr tid: ah, yes - it's mr wiggin of ironside and malone. 

mr wiggin: good morning, gentlemen. this is a twelwe-storey block combining classical neo-georgian features with the efficiency of modern techniques. the tenants arrive in the entrance hall here, and are carried along the corridor on a conveyor belt in extreme comfort and past murals depicting mediterranean scenes, towards the rotating knives. the last twenty feet of the corridor are heavily soundproofed. the blood pours down these chutes and the mangled flesh slurps into these... 

first city gent: excuse me.... 

mr wiggin: hm? 

first city gent: did you say knives? 

mr wiggin: rotating knives, yes. 

second city gent: are you proposing to slaughter our tenants? 

mr wiggin: does that not fit in with your plans? 

first city gent: no, it does not. we asked for a simple block of flats. 

mr wiggin: oh, i see. i hadn't correctly divined your attitude towards your tenants. you see i mainly design slaughter houses. yes, pity. mind you, this is a real beaut. i mean, none of your blood caked on the walls and flesh flying out of the windows, inconveniencing the passers-by with this one. i mean, my life has been building up to this. 

second city gent: yes, and well done, but we want a block of flats. 

mr wiggin: may i ask you to reconsider. i mean, you wouldn't regret it. think of the tourist trade. 

first city gent: no, no, it's just that we wanted a block of flats, not an abattoir. 

mr wiggin: yes, well, of course, this is just the sort blinkered philistine pig ignorance i've come to expect from you non-creative garbage. you sit there on your loathsome, spotty behinds squeezing blackheads, not caring a tinker's cuss about the struggling artist. 

mr wiggin: you excrement! you lousy hypocritical whining toadies with your lousy colour tv sets and your tony jacklin golf clubs and your bleeding masonic handshakes! you wouldn't let me join, would you, you blackballing bastards. well i wouldn't become a freemason now if you went down on your lousy, stinking, purulent knees and begged me. 

second city gent: well, we're sorry you feel like that but we, er, did want a block of flats. nice though the abattoir is. 

mr wiggin: oh 

mr wiggin: the abattoir, that's not important. but if any of you could put in a word for me i'd love to be a freemason. freemasonry opens doors. i mean, i was...i was a bit on edge just now, but if i were a mason i'd sit at the back and not get in anyone's way. 

first city gent: thank you. 

mr wiggin: i've got a second-hand apron. 

second city gent: thank you. 

mr wiggin: i nearly got in at hendon. 

mr tid: i'm sorry about that, gentlemen. the second architect is mr leavey of wymis and dibble. 

mr leavey: good morning gentlemen. this is a scale model of the block. there are twenty-eight storeys, with two hundred and eighty modern apartments. there are three main lifts and two service lifts. access would be from dibbingley road. 

mr leavey: we have almost totally removed the risk of... 

none: superimposed caption: 'satire' 

mr leavey: quite frankly, i think the central pillar system may need strengthening a bit. 

second city gent: isn't that going to put the cost up? 

mr leavey: it might. 

second city gent: well, i don't know whether i'd worry about strengthening 

second city gent: that 

second city gent: much. after all, they're not meant to be luxury flats. 

first city gent: i quite agree. i mean, providing the tenants are of light build and relatively sedentary and er, given a spot of good weather, i think we're on to a winner here. 

mr leavey: thank you. 

second city gent: quite agree. quite agree. 

mr leavey: thank you very much. thank you. 

mr wiggin: it opens doors, i'm telling you. 

voice over: let's have a look at that handshake again in slow motion. 

<scene how to give up being a mason>

first voice over: what other ways are there of recognizing a mason? 

second voice over: having once identified a mason immediate steps must be taken to isolate him from the general public. having accomplished that it is now possible to cure him of these unfortunate masonic tendencies through the use of behavioural psychotherapy. 

second voice over: in this treatment the patient is rewarded for the correct response and punished for the wrong one. let us begin. would you like to give up being a mason? think carefully. think. think. 

cartoon city gent: no. 

announcer: the bbc would like to apologize for the following announcement. 

<scene motor insurance sketch>

gumbys: oh! and the next item is called 'insurance sketch'. 'insurance sketch'. 'insurance sketch'... 

devious: what do you want? 

none: superimposed caption: 'straight man' 

man: well i've come about your special fully comprehensive motor insurance policy offer... 

devious: what was that? 

man: fully comprehensive motor insurance for one-and-eightpence. 

devious: oh, oh, yes...yeah well, unfortunately, guv, that offer's no longer valid. you see, it turned out not to be commercially viable, so we now have a totally new offer... 

man: what's that? 

devious: a nude lady. 

man: a nude lady? 

devious: yes. you get a nude lady with a fully comprehensive motor insurance. if you just want third party she has to keep her bra on, and if it's just theft... 

man: no, no, i don't really want that, mr er...mr... 

devious: devious. 

man: mr devious. i just want to know what it would cost me to have a fully comprehensive inurance on a 1970 aston martin. 

devious: aston martin? 

man: yes. 

devious: five hundred quid. 

man: five hundred quid? 

devious: forty quid. 

man: forty quid? 

devious: forty quid and a nude lady. 

man: no, no, i'm not interested in a nude lady. 

devious: dirty books? 

man: no, no, look, i'm not interested in any af that. 

man: i just want to know what it would cost me to have a fully comprehensive insurance on a 1970 aston martin. can you please qoute me your price. 

vicar: knock knock. 

devious: who's there 

vicar: the reverend... 

devious: the reverend who? 

vicar: the reverend morrison. 

devious: oh, come in. 

devious: now then, vic. what's the trouble? 

vicar: well, it's about this letter you sent me. 

man: excuse me, do i have any more lines? 

devious: i don't know, mush, i'll have to look in the script... 

devious: where are we? show 8. are you 'man? 

man: yeah. 

devious: no...no, you're finished. 

man: well, i'll be off then. 

devious: 'the vicar sits'. 

vicar: it's about this letter you sent me regarding my insurance claim. 

devious: oh, yeah, yeah - well, you see, it's just that we're not...as yet... 

devious: totally 

devious: satisfied with the grounds of your claim. 

vicar: but it says something about filling my mouth in with cement. 

devious: oh well, that's just insurance jargon, you know. 

vicar: but my car was hit by a lorry while standing in the garage and you refuse to pay my claim. 

devious: ...here we are. it states quite clearly that no claim you make will be paid. 

vicar: oh dear. 

devious: you see, you unfortunately plumped for our 'neverpay' policy, which, you know, if you never claim is very worthwhile...but you had to claim, and, well, there it is. 

vicar: oh dear, oh dear. 

devious: still, never mind - could be worse. how's the nude lady? 

vicar: oh, she's fine. 

devious: look...rev...i hate to see a man cry, so shove off out the office, there's a good chap. 

bishop: ok, devious...don't move! 

devious: the bishop! 

vicar: i take as my text for today... 

bishop: the text, vic! don't say the text! 

vicar: leviticus 3-14. . . 

bishop: we was too late. the reverend grundy bit the ceiling. 

bishop: hello? ... what?... we'll be right over! 

vicar: and it is for this reason that the christian church lays upon you, the godparents, the obligation of seeing this child is brought up in the christian faith. therefore, i name this child... 

bishop: don't say the kid's name, vic! 

vicar: francesco luigi... 

bishop: we was too late... the rev. neuk saw the light. 

bishop: the ring, vic don't touch the ring! hey vic! 

vicar: ... dust to dust, ashes to ashes. 

vicar: help ... help... help... help... help... help... 

bishop: ok, devious, don't move! 

mr potter: this is where we came in. 

mrs potter: yes. 

mrs potter: oh, it's nice to be home. 

mr potter: builders haven't been then. 

mrs potter: no. 

interviewer: these two old people are typical of the housing problem facing britain's aged. 

mrs potter: here! don't you start doing a documentary on us, young man. 

interviewer: oh please ... 

mrs potter: no, you leave us alone! 

interviewer: oh, just a little one about the appalling conditions under which you live. 

mrs potter: no! get out of our house! go on! 

mrs potter: why don't you do a documentary about the drug problem round in walton street? 

mrs potter: oh, i'll go and have a bath. 

mrs potter: 'ere, there's alfred lord tennyson in the bathroom. 

mr potter: well, at least the poet's been installed, then. 

<scene poets>

sales manager: yes, a poet is essential for complete home comfort, and all-year round reliability at low cost. we in the east midlands poet board hope to have a poet in every home by the end of next year. 

none: animation: 

voice: i wandered lonely as a cloud 

voice: that floats on high... 

inspector: morning, madam, i've come to read your poet. 

she: oh yes, he's in the cupboard under the stairs. 

inspector: what is it, a swinburne? shelley? 

she: no, it's a wordsworth. 

inspector: oh, bloody daffodils. 

wordsworth: a host of golden daffodils 

wordsworth: beside the lake, beneath the trees 

wordsworth: fluttering and dancing in the breeze 

wordsworth: continuous as the stars that shine 

wordsworth: and twinkle in the milky way 

wordsworth: they stretch in... 

inspector: right. thank you, madam. 

she: oh, not at all. thank 

she: you 

she: ... it's a nice day, isn't it? 

inspector: yes, yes, the weather situation is generally favourable. there's a ridge of high pressure centred over ireland which is moving steadily eastward bringing cloudy weather to parts of the west country, wales and areas west of the pennines. on tomorrow's chart ... 

inspector: the picture is much the same. with this occluded front bringing drier, warmer weather. temperatures about average for the time of year. that's three degrees centigrade, forty-four degrees fahrenheit, so don't forget to wrap up well. that's all from me. goodnight. 

<scene a choice of viewing>

continuity voice: now on bbc television a choice of viewing. on bbc 2 - a discussion on censorship between derek hart, the bishop of woolwich and a nude man. and on bbc 1 - me telling you this. and now... 

she: we don't want that, do we. do you really want that cherry in your tea? do you like doing this job? 

inspector: well, it's a living, isn't it? 

she: i mean, don't you get bored reading people's poets all day? 

inspector: well, you know, sometimes ... yeah. anyway, i think i'd better be going. 

she: you've got a nice torch, haven't you? 

inspector: er, yeah, yeah, it er... it er ... it goes on and off. 

she: how many volts is it? 

inspector: er ... um... well, i'll have a look at the batteries. 

she: oh yes, yes. 

inspector: it's four and a half volts. 

she: mmmm. that's wonderful. do you want another look at the poet? 

inspector: no, no, i must be off, really. 

she: i've got thomas hardy in the bedroom. i'd like you to look at him. 

inspector: ah well, i can't touch him. he's a novelist. 

she: oh, he keeps mumbling all night. 

inspector: oh well, novelists do, you see. 

she: oh forget him! what's your name, deary? 

inspector: harness. 

she: no, no! your first name, silly! 

inspector: wombat. 

she: oh, wombat. wombat harness! take me to the place where eternity knows no bounds, where the garden of love encloses us round. oh harness! 

inspector: all right, i'll have a quick look at yer thomas hardy. 

derek: nude man, what did you make of that? 

nude man: well, don't you see, that was exactly the kind of explicit sexual reference i'm objecting to. it's titillation for the sake of it. a deliberate attempt at cheap sensationalism. i don't care what the so-called avant-garde, left-wing, intellectual namby-pambies say... it is 

nude man: filth 

nude man: ! 

derek: bishop. 

bishop: okay, don't anybody move! 

voice over: the bbc would like to apologize for the constant repetition in this show. 

none: different caption reading: 'an apology' 

none: animation: 

<scene chemist sketch>

gumbys: thank you. and now a sketch about a chemist called the chemist sketch. 

chemist: catch. 

none: caption: 'the chemist sketch - an apology' 

voice over: the bbc would like to apologize for the poor quality of the writing in that sketch. it is not bbc policy to get easy laughs with words like bum, knickers, botty or wee-wees. 

voice over: ssssh! 

<scene words not to be used again>

bbc man: these are the words that are not to be used again on this programme. 

bbc man: out! 

chemist: right, who's got a boil on his semprini, then? 

man: good morning. 

chemist: good morning, sir. 

man: good morning. i'd like some aftershave, please. 

chemist: ah, certainly. walk this way, please. 

man: if i could walk that way i wouldn't need aftershave. 

chemist: good morning, sir. can i help you? 

man: yes. i'd like some aftershave. 

chemist: ah. a toilet requisite-t-t-t-t-t... would you like to try this, sir. it's our very very latest, it's called sea mist. 

man: i quite like it. 

chemist: how about something a little more musky? this one's called mimmo. 

man: not really, no. have you anything a little more fishier? 

chemist: fishier? 

man: fishier. 

chemist: fish, fish, fish. a fishy requisite-t-t-t-t-t... 

man: like halibut or sea bass. 

chemist: or bream? 

man: yes. 

chemist: no, we haven't got any of that... ah, i've got mackerel... or cod... or hake... 

man: you haven't got anything a little more halibutish? 

chemist: er... parrot? what's that doing there? or skate with just a hint of prawn? or crab, tiger and almonds, very unusual. 

man: i really had my heart set on halibut. 

chemist: well, sir, we had a fishy consignment in this morning, so i could nip down to the basement and see if i can come up trumps on this particular requisite-t-t-t-t-t. so it was halibut... or... ? 

man: sea bass. 

chemist: sea bass. won't be a moment. 

man: as though he's gone down ... to the basement. actually i think he's rather overdoing it. ah! 

chemist: well, sorry, sir. 

chemist: well, i'm afraid it didn't come in this morning, sir. but we have got some down at our kensington branch. i'll just nip down there and get it for you. 

man: how long will that be? 

chemist: twenty minutes. 

man: twenty minutes! 

<scene vox pops on aftershave>

man: oh... i wonder what other people use for aftershave lotion? 

first gumby: i use a body rub called halitosis to make my breath seem sweet. 

second gumby: i use an aftershave called semprini. 

chemist: i'm sorry, sorry - can't stop now, i've got to get to kensington. 

cardinal ximinez: i use two kinds of aftershave lotions - frankincense, myrrh - 

cardinal ximinez: three 

cardinal ximinez: four 

cardinal ximinez: kinds of aftershave lotion. frankincense, .... 

another man: i have a cold shower every morning just before i go mad, and then i go mad, 1. mad, 2. mad, 3. mad, 4... 

shabby: i use rancid polecat number two. it keeps my skin nice and scaly. 

chemist: sorry again. can't stop - got to get back. 

chemist: well i'm afraid they don't have any at our kensington branch. but we have some down at the depot. 

man: where's that? 

chemist: aberdeen. 

man: aberdeen? 

chemist: it's all right. wait here ... i've got a car. 

man: no, no, no. i'll take the other, the crab, tiger and... 

chemist: almond requisite... t... t... ? 

man: i'll take it. 

<scene police constable pan-am>

policeman: right. right! right! now then! now then! your turn. 

chemist: aren't you going to say 'what's all this then?'? 

policeman: oh! right, what's all this, then? 

chemist: this man has been shoplifting, officer. 

policeman: oh, he has? yus? 

chemist: yes. 

policeman: are you trying to tell me my job? 

chemist: no, but he's been shoplifting. 

policeman: look! i must warn you that anything you may say will be ignored and furthermore, given half a chance i'll put my fist through your teeth. f'tang. f'tang. 

man: but officer, this man here... 

policeman: i've had enough of you. you're under arrest. 

chemist: officer, it wasn't him. 

chemist: he's the shoplifter. 

shoplifter: no i'm not. 

policeman: one more peep out of you and i'll do you for heresy. 

chemist: heresy. blimey. i didn't expect the spanish inquisition. 

policeman: shut up! f'tang. f'tang. oh, that's nice. 

policeman: right. i'm taking you along to the station. 

man: what for? 

policeman: i'm charging you with illegal possession of whatever we happen to have down there. right. 

policeman: lunar module calling buzz aldrin. come in. raindrops keep falling on my head... but that doesn't mean that my... 

none: caption: 'an apology' 

voice over: the bbc would like to apologize to the police about the character of police constable pan am. he was not meant to represent the average police officer. similarly, the reference to buzz aldrin, the astronaut, was the product of a disordered mind and should not be construed as having any other significance. 

<scene >

<scene live from the grill-o-mat snack bar, paignton>

voice over: monty python's flying circus tonight comes to you live from the grillomat snack bar, paignton. 

linkman: hello to you live from the grillomat snack bar, paignton. and so, without any more ado, let's have the titles. 

it's man voice: it's... 

linkman: well, those were the titles. and now for the first item this evening on the menu - ha ha - the team have chosen as a little hors d'oeuvres an item - and i think we can be sure it won't be an ordinary item - in fact the team told me just before the show that anything could happen, and probably would - so let's have ... the item. 

<scene 'blackmail'>

presenter: hello, good evening, and welcome to 'blackmail'! and to start tonight's programme, we go to preston in lancashire, and mrs betty teal! 

presenter: hello, mrs teal! 

presenter: now this is for £15 and it's to stop us revealing the name of your lover in bolton. 

none: superimposed caption: '£15' 

presenter: so mrs teal...if you send us £15 by return post, please, and your husband trevor, and your lovely children, diane, janice and juliet need never know the name of your lover in bolton. 

presenter: ...to stop us from revealing your name, the name of the three other people involved, the youth organization to which they belong, and the shop where you bought the equipment. 

presenter: we'll be showing you more of that photograph later in the programme...unless we hear from charles or michael. and now it's time for our 'stop the film' spot! 

none: superimposed flashing caption: 'stop the film' 

presenter: the rules are very simple. we have taken a film which contains compromising scenes and unpleasant details, which could wreck a man's career. but, the victim may phone me at any point and stop the film. but remember the money increases as the film goes on. so the longer you leave it...the more you have to pay! so now, with the clock at £300 this week 'stop the film' visited thames ditton... 

presenter: he's being very brave here... 

presenter: hello, sir, hello, yes. no sir, no, i'm sure you didn't. no, it's all right, sir, we don't morally censure, we just want the money....yes, and here's the address to send it to: 

presenter: not at all, sir...thank 

presenter: you 

<scene society for putting things on top of other things>

man: sorry chaps, it was my mother. 

toastmaster: gentlemen, pray silence for the president of the royal society for putting things on top of other things. 

sir william: i thank you, gentlemen. the year has been a good one for the society 

sir william: . therefore i call upon our staffordshire delegate to explain this weird behaviour. 

mr cutler: er, cutler, staffordshire. um ... well, mr chairman, it's just that most of the members in staffordshire feel... the whole thing's a bit silly. 

sir william: silly! silly!! 

sir william: right, okay, meeting adjourned for ever. 

sir william: good lord. i'm on film. how did that happen? 

sir william: it's film again. what's going on? 

sir william: gentlemen! i have bad news. this room is surrounded by film. 

members: what? what? 

a member: we're trapped! 

<scene escape (from film)>

sir william: don't panic, we'll get out of this. 

a member: how? 

sir william: we'll tunnel our way out. 

barnes: good thinking, sir. i'll get the horse. 

sir william: okay captain, you detail three men, start digging and load them up with cutlery, and then we'll have a rota, we'll have two hours digging, two hours vaulting and then two hours sleeping, okay? 

mr cutler: all right, medwin, let's see you get over that horse. pick your feet up, medwin. come on, boy! 

first german officer: ze stupid english. zey are prisoners and all they do is the sport. 

second german officer: one thing worries me, fritz. 

first german officer: ja? 

second german officer: where's the traditional cheeky and lovable cockney sergeant? 

sergeant: maybe it's because i'm a londoner... 

second german officer: good. everything seems to be in order. 

mr cutler: colonel! i've just found another exit, sir. 

sir william: okay, quickly, run this way. 

everyone: if we could run that way . .. 

animation voice: oh, i'm terribly sorry, excuse me. 

linkman: ah, hello. well they certainly seem to be in a tight spot, and 

linkman: i 

linkman: spot... our next item - so let's get straight on with the fun and go over to the next item - or dish! ha, ha! 

<scene current affairs>

praline: hello. 'ow are you? i'm fine. welcome to a new half-hour chat show in which me, viz the man what's talking to you now, and brooky - to wit my flat mate - and nothing else, i'd like to emphasize that - discuss current affairs issues of burning import. 

brooky: have you heard the one about the three nuns in the nudist colony? 

praline: shut up. tonight, the population explosion. 

brooky: apparently there were these three nuns... 

praline: shut up. come the year 1991, given the present rate of increase in the world's population, the chinese will be three deep. another thing... 

floor manager: sorry, loves, sorry, the show is too long this week and this scene's been cut. 

praline: lord hill's at the bottom of this. 

floor manager: but if you can find a piano stool you can appear later on in the show on film. 

brooky: 'ow much? 

floor manager: oh, about ten bob each? 

praline: i wouldn't wipe me nose on it. 

brooky: 'ave you 'eard the one about these three nuns... 

praline: shh. i can hear something. 'ang about, we may still get in this show as a link. 

brooky: that's clever. how do they do that? 

praline: colour separation, you cotton head. 

none: animation: 

linkman: well, they seem to be in another tight spot... 

linkman: well and now we move on to our, to our main course. prawn salad...prawn salad? 

<scene accidents sketch>

butler: well, if you'll just wait in here, sir, i'm sure mr thompson won't keep you waiting long. 

man: fine. thanks very much. 

man: the mirror fell off the wall. 

butler: sir? 

man: the mirror fell off... off the wall... it fell. 

butler: i see. you'd better wait here. i'll get a cloth. 

man: ah, it ... it came off the wall. 

butler: yes, sir? 

man: it just came right off the wall. 

butler: really, sir. 

man: yes, i ... i didn't touch it. 

butler: of course not. it just fell off the wall. 

man: yes. it just fell off the wall. 

butler: don't move. i'll get help. 

man: yes - er, fell off the wall. 

maid: oh my god, what a mess. 'ere, did you do this? 

man: no, no. i didn't do all this. it... it did it all. 

maid: oh? well... 'ere, hold this. i'll get started. 

man: oh, it's jolly nice. what is it? 

maid: it's a brazilian dagger. ooops. 

man: er, she just fell on ... on to the dagger. 

green: yes, of course she did, sir. 

man: yes, just gave me the dagger and tripped, and went, 'oops'. 

green: yes sir, i understand. 

man: i mean, i didn't er... 

green: oh no, no, of course not, sir, i understand. 

man: i mean she ... she just, er... 

green: fell? 

man: fell. 

green: arrghh! 

man: i'm terribly sorry. 

butler: that's him. 

policeman: right, sir. 

man: hello, officer. there seems to have been an accident. well, several accidents actually. 

policeman: that's right, sir. would you come this way, please. 

butler: you swine. i'll get you for that. 

man: er, i won't wait. i'll phone. 

man: sorry. 

bishop: oh, mr belpit. your legs are so swollen. 

sir william: excuse me, is that the school hall? 

bishop: um, i'm sorry, i don't know. i'm not in this one - i'm in next week's, i think. 

sir william: oh, come on. 

bishop: oh, mr belpit!... 

sir william: oh, here we are. 

linkman: ah well, they seem to have linked that themselves, so there's no need for me to interrupt at all. so, ah, back to the school hall. 

<scene seven brides for seven brothers>

schoolmaster: 'seven brides for seven brothers'. 

headmaster: 'tis time the seven smith brothers had brides. fetch me smith major. 

first smith: sir. 

headmaster: 'tis time you and your six brothers were married. 

first smith: thank you, headmaster. 

headmaster: fetch me your six brothers, that the seven brothers may be together. 

headmaster: right, i'll see watson, wilkins, and spratt in my study afterwards. 

first smith: but where shall we find seven brides for seven brothers? 

second smith: the sabine school for girls. 

third smith: yes, and it's the annual dance. 

headmaster: fetch hither the seven brides for seven brothers. 

headmaster: fetch hither the padre that the seven brides may marry the seven brothers. 

headmaster: fetch hither the master on duty that the seven brides may marry the seven brothers. 

padre: sorry, i'm late, headmaster - i've been wrestling with plato. 

headmaster: what you do in your own time, padre, is written on the wall in the vestry. 

padre: right, do you four boys take these two girls to be your seven brides? 

boys: yes, sir. 

padre: right, go and do your prep. 

<scene the man who is alternately rude and polite>

none: animation sketch links us to a butcher's shop. harmless looking city gent enters. 

gent: good morning, i'd care to purchase a chicken, please. 

butcher: don't come here with that posh talk you nasty, stuck-up twit. 

gent: i beg your pardon? 

butcher: a chicken, sir. certainly. 

gent: thank you. and how much does that work out to per pound, my good fellow? 

butcher: per pound, you slimy trollop, what kind of a ponce are you? 

gent: i'm sorry? 

butcher: 4/6 a pound, sir, nice and ready for roasting. 

gent: i see, and i'd care to purchase some stuffing in addition, please. 

butcher: use your own, you great poofy poonagger! 

gent: what? 

butcher: ah, certainly sir, some stuffing. 

gent: oh, thank you. 

butcher: 'oh, thank you' says the great queen like a la-di-dah poofta. 

butcher: that's all right, sir, call again. 

gent: excuse me. 

butcher: what is it now, you great pillock? 

gent: well, i can't help noticing that you insult me and then you're polite to me alternately. 

butcher: i'm terribly sorry to hear that, sir. 

gent: that's all right. it doesn't really matter. 

butcher: tough titty if it did, you nasty spotted prancer. 

linkman: sorry, i asked for tea. 

linkman: now i did ask for tea. 

waitress: but you just said coffee. 

linkman: no, no, that was just my announcement, just a metaphor. 

linkman: we come...look would you mind keeping it down, please...we come as - as i said just now, to the coffee. 

waitress: here, he said it again! 

linkman: shut up! 

<scene documentary on boxer>

voice over: this is ken clean-air systems, the great white hope of the british boxing world. after three fights - and only two convictions - his manager believes that ken is now ready to face the giant american, satellite five. 

manager: the great thing about ken is that he's almost totally stupid. 

voice over: every morning, he jogs the forty-seven miles from his two-bedroomed, eight-bathroom, six-up-two-down, three-to-go-house in reigate, to the government's pesticide research centre at shoreham. nobody knows why. 

mrs cas: basically ken is a very gentle, home-loving person. i remember when one of his stick insects had a knee infection. he stayed up all night rubbing it with germoline and banging its head on the table. 

mother: oh he was such a pretty baby, always so kind and gentle. he was really considerate to his mother, and not at all the kind of person you'd expect to pulverize their opponent into a bloody mass of flesh and raw bone, spitting teeth and fragments of gum into a ring which had become one man's hell and ken's glory. 

voice over: every morning at his little three-room semi near reading, ken gets up at three o'dock 

voice over: and goes back to bed again because it's far too early. 

voice over: at seven o'clock ken gets up, he has a quick shower, a rub-down, gets into his track-suit, and goes back to bed again. 

voice over: at 7.50 every morning ken's trainer runs the 13,000 miles from his two-room lean-to in bangkok and gets him up. 

trainer: i used to wake ken up with a crowbar on the back of the head. but i recently found that this was too far from his brain and i wasn't getting through to him anymore. so i now wake him up with a steel peg driven into his skull with a mallet. 

voice over: for breakfast every day, ken places a plate of liver and bacon under his chair, and locks himself in the cupboard. 

manager: well, he's having a lot of mental difficulties with his breakfasts, but this is temperament, caused by a small particle of brain in his skull, and once we've removed that he'll be perfectly all right. 

voice over: at 8.30 the real training begins. 

voice over: at 10.30 every morning ken arrives at what he thinks is the gym. sometimes it's a sweetshop, sometimes it's a private house. today its a hospital. 

doctor: urn, straight down there. straight down there. 

voice over: for lunch ken crouches down in the road and rubs gravel into his hair. 

trainer: hello. when ken is in a really deep sleep like this one, the only way to wake him up is to saw his head off. 

voice over: what is he like in the ring, this human dynamo, this eighteen-stone bantam weight battering-ram? we asked his sparring partner and one-time childhood sweetheart, maureen spencer. 

maureen: well, i think that if ken keeps his right up, gets in with the left jab and takes the fight to his man - well, he should go for a cut eye in the third and put wilcox on the canvas by six. 

voice over: ken's opponent in tuesday's fight is petula wilcox, the birmingham girl who was a shorthand typist before turning pro in 1968. 

voice over: she's keen on knitting and likes cliff richard records. how does she rate her chances against ken? 

petula: well, i'm a southpaw and i think this will confuse him, particularly with his brain problem. 

master of ceremonies: my lords, ladies and gedderbong... on my right, from the town of reigate in the county of kent, the heavyweight... 

master of ceremonies: and on my left! miss petula wilcox. 

colonel type: i think boxing's a splendid sport - teaches you self-defense. 

critic: obviously boxing must have its limits, but providing they're both perfectly fit i can see nothing wrong with one healthy man beating the living daylights out of a little schoolgirl. 

voice: it's quick and it's fun. 

waitress: oh, no, he's gone. but he left a message. jack! where's that note that fellow left? 

jack: oh, here you are. 

waitress: it says sorry, had to catch the last bus. am on the 49b to babbacombe. 

linkman: oh, er, there you are. hello. you got the note, jolly good. well, um, that's all the items that we have for you this week and er, what a jolly nice lot of items too, eh? um...well, the same team will be back with you again next week with another menu full of items. um...i don't know if i shall be introducing the show next week as i understand my bits in this show have not been recieved quite as well as they might 

linkman: sorry. i do beg your pardon. i don't like these...displays of emotion...i wish it would say the end. 

<scene 'it's a living'>

compère: hello, good evening, and welcome to 'it's a living'. the rules are very simple: each week we get a large fee; at the end of that week we get another large fee; if there's been no interruption at the end of the year we get a repeat fee which can be added on for tax purposes to the previous year or the following year if there's no new series. every contestant, in addition to getting a large fee is entitled to three drinks at the bbc or if the show is over, seven drinks - unless he is an mp, in which case he can have seven drinks before the show, or a bishop only three drinks in toto. the winners will receive an additional fee, a prize which they can flog back and a special fee for a guest appearance on 'late night line up'. well, those are the rules, that's the game, we'll be back again same time next week. till then. bye-bye. 

<scene the time on bbc 1>

voice over: well, it's five past nine and nearly time for six past nine. on bbc 2 now it'll shortly be six and a half minutes past nine. later on this evening it'll be ten o'clock and at 10.30 we'll be joining bbc 2 in time for 10.33, and don't forget tomorrow when it'll be 9.20. those of you who missed 8.45 on friday will be able to see it again this friday at a quarter to nine. now here is a time check. it's six and a half minutes to the big green thing. 

second voice over: you're a loony. 

voice over: i get so bored. i get so bloody bored. 

none: animation: 

announcer: you probably noticed that i didn't say 'and now for something completely different' just now. this is simply because i am unable to appear in the show this week. 

announcer: sorry to interrupt you. 

man: i'm terribly sorry to interrupt but my tooth's hurting, just around here. 

voice: get off. 

man: oh, sorry. 

nabarro: i'm not sorry to interrupt - i'll interrupt anything if it gets people looking in my direction - like at my old school where, by a coincidence, the annual prize giving is going on at this very moment. 

<scene school prize-giving>

bishop: my lord mayor, lady mayoress, it gives me very great pleasure to return to my old school, to present the prizes in this centenary year. this school takes very justifiable pride in its fine record of... aaaaagh! 

bishop: ... scholarship and sporting achievement in all... aaaagh! 

second bishop: i'm, i'm afraid there's been a mistake. the man who has been speaking to you is an impostor. he is not in fact the bishop of east anglia, but a man wanted by the police. 

second bishop: i 

second bishop: next we come to the fairfax atkinson trophy for outstanding achievement in the field of applied mathematics. well, there was no-one this year who reached the required standard so it goes in my sack. and by an old rule of the school all the other silver trophies also go in my sack ... aaagh! 

chinaman: velly solly for hold-up ... no ploblem now ... me are bishop of east anglia, now piesent plizes ... eyes down for first plize ... the fyffe-chulmleigh spoon for latin elegaics... 'goes to ... people's republic of china! aaaagh! 

detective: good evening, everybody. my name's bradshaw - inspector elizabeth bradshaw, of the special branch speech day squad, but i'd like you to think of me as the bishop of east anglia, and i'd like to present the first prize, the grimwade gynn trophy to... 

soldier: oh... bad luck! the next prize... 

<scene 'if' - a film by mr dibley>

interviewer: mr l.f. dibley's latest film 'if'. 

interviewer: mr dibley, some people have drawn comparisons between your film, 'if', which ends with a gun battle at a public school, and mr lindsay anderson's film, 'if', which ends with a gun battle at a public school. 

dibley: oh yes, well, i mean, there were some people who said my film '2001 - a space odyssey', was similar to stanley kubrick's. i mean, that's the sort of petty critical niggling that's dogged my career. it makes me sick. i mean, as soon as i'd made 'midnight cowboy' with the vicar as ratso rizzo, john schlesinger rushes out his version, and gets it premiered while mine's still at the chemist's. 

<scene 'rear window' - a film by mr dibley>

interviewer: well, we have with us tonight one of your films, 'rear window', which was to become such a success for alfred hitchcock a few weeks later. now this is a silent film, so perhaps you could talk us through it... 

dibley: yes, well, let's see now ... there's the rear window. there's the man looking out of the window. he sees the murder. the murderer's come into the room to kill him, but he's outwitted him and he's all right. the end. i mean, alfred hitchcock, who's supposed to be so bloody wonderful, padded that out to one and a half hours ... lost all the tension ... just because he had bloody grace kelly he made £3 million more than i did. mind you, at least she can act a bit, i could have done with her in 'finian's rainbow' ... the man from the off-licence was terrible ... a real failure that was - ten seconds of solid boredom. 

<scene 'finian's rainbow' (starring the man from the off-license)>

dibley: bloody terrible. 

<scene foreign secretary>

interviewer: mr l. f. dibley's 'finian's rainbow'. and now over to me. 

interviewer: exclusively on the programme today we have the foreign secretary, who has just returned from the bitter fighting in the gulf of amman. he's going to tell us about canoeing. 

interviewer: that gives you just some idea of what's going on out there. today saw the long-awaited publication of the portman committee's report on industrial reorganization... 

none: caption: 'something silly's going to happen' 

interviewer: it's taken five years to prepare and it's bound to have an enormous impact on the future of industrial relations in this country. in the studio tonight lord porlman, chairman of the committee, sir charles avery, employers' reorganization council, and ray millichope, leader of the allied technicians' union. and they're going to make a human pyramid. 

interviewer: bra... vo. now the president of the board of trade... 

interviewer: now here's the vice-chairman of ici. 

interviewer: well, so much for politics and the problems of britain's industrial reorganization. now we turn to the lighter subject of sport, and reg harris, the former world cycling sprint champion, talks to us about the psychological problems of big race preparation. 

interviewer: well, all good things must come to an end, and that's all for this week. but to close our programme, dame irene stoat, who celebrates her eighty-fifth birthday this month, reads one of her most famous poems. 

dame irene: who shall declare this good, that ill 

dame irene: when good and ill so intertwine 

dame irene: but to fulfil the vast design of an omniscient will. 

dame irene: when seeming again but turns to loss 

dame irene: when earthly treasure proves but dross 

dame irene: and what seems lost but turns again 

dame irene: to high eternal gain. 

<scene dung>

hostess: we had the most marvelous holiday. it was absolutely fantastic. 

host: absolutely wonderful. 

hostess: michael, you tell them about it. 

host: no, darling, you tell them. 

hostess: you do it so much better. 

host: excuse me a moment. 

man: dung, sir. 

host: what? 

man: we've got your dung. 

host: what dung? 

man: your dung. three hundredweight of heavy droppings. where do you want it? 

host: i didn't order any dung. 

man: yes you did, sir. you ordered it through the book of the month club. 

host: book of the month club? 

man: that's right, sir. you get 'gone with the wind', 'les miserables' by victor hugo, 'the french lieutenant's woman' and with every third book you get dung. 

host: i didn't know that when i signed the form. 

man: well, no, no. it wasn't on the form - they found it wasn't good for business. anyway, we've got three hundredweight of dung in the van. where do you want it? 

host: well, i don't think we do. we've no garden. 

man: well, it'll all fit in here - it's top-class excrement. 

host: you can't put it in here, we've having a dinner party! 

man: 'salright. i'll put it on the telly. 

host: darling... there's a man here with our book of the month club dung. 

hostess: we've no room, dear. 

man: well, how many rooms have you got, then? 

host: well, there's only this room, the bedroom, a spare room. 

man: oh well, i'll tell you what, move everything into the main bedroom, then you can use the spare room as a dung room. 

<scene dead indian>

host: yes. 

gas man: dead indian. 

host: what? 

gas man: have you recently bought a new cooker, sir? 

gas man: ah well, this is your free dead indian, as advertised... 

host: i didn't see that in the adverts... 

gas man: no, it's in the very small print, you see, sir, so as not to affect the sales. 

host: we've no room. 

man: that's all right - you can put the dead indian in the spare room on top of the dung. 

dead indian: me ... heap dizzy. 

host: he's not dead! 

gas man: oh well, that's probably a faulty cooker. 

man: have you, er... you read and enjoyed 'the french lieutenant's woman', then? 

host: no. 

man: no... still, it's worth it for the dung, isn't it? 

hostess: darling, it's the milk marketing board. for every two cartons of single cream we get the m4 motorway. 

policeman: are you mr and mrs p. forbes of 7, the studios, elstree? 

policeman: right, well, get in the car. we've won you in a police raffle. 

inspector: yes! this couple is just one of the prizes in this year's police raffle. other prizes include two years for breaking and entering, a crate of search warrants, a 'what's all this then?' t-shirt and a weekend for two with a skinhead of your own choice. 

none: caption: 'stop-press' 

voice over: and that's not all. three fabulous new prizes have just been added, a four-month supply of interesting undergarments 

voice over: , and a hand-painted scene of arabian splendour, complete with silly walk. 

<scene timmy williams interview>

timmy: nigel! wonderful to see you, super, super, super. am i a teeny bit late? 

nigel: a bit, an hour. 

timmy: oh, super! only snowdon's been re-touching my profile and we can't upset the lovely snowdon, can we? 

nigel: gosh, no. 

timmy: it's really lovely to have this little chat with you. 

nigel: well, i... 

timmy: it is so nice to have this little talk about things. i heard a teeny rumourlette that you were married. 

nigel: well, not quite, no. my wife's just died, actually. 

timmy: oh dear. 

timmy: well, perhaps we could do a tribute to her on the show. 

nigel: well, no. i... 

timmy: i'll get peter, william, arthur, alex, joan, ted, scott, will, john and ray to fix it up. it is so nice having this little chat. 

nigel: well, actually timmy, i'm glad to get you on your own... 

timmy: you don't mind if peter just sits in, do you? 

nigel: well, actually... 

timmy: only he's doing an article on me for the 'mail'. he's such a lovely person. 

reporter: hello. 

timmy: peter, this is one of the nicest people in the world, nigel watt. 

timmy: w-a-double t. that's right, yes. 

nigel: well, actually, timmy, the thing is, it's a bit private. 

timmy: oh, you don't mind if peter just sits in, do you? only peter's writing a book on me. peter, you know tony from the 'mail', don't you? 

peter: yes, we met in the turkish bath yesterday. 

timmy: super, super. did it come up well in the writing yesterday? 

peter: great, great, great. 

timmy: you took out the tummy references? 

peter: yes, i did. 

timmy: super, super, super. just to fill you in, this is nigel watt and we are having a little heart-to-heart. h-e-a-r-t. smashing. do go on, nigel. 

nigel: well, well, the thing is, timmy, um er... 

timmy: do carry on, it's the 'tv times', only they syndicate these photographs to america. would you mind if we just er... 

timmy: super, super. one over here, i think, bob. a little smile, please, smashing, smashing. feel free, bob, to circulate, won't you. do go on, this is most interesting. 

nigel: well, the thing is, timmy, i'm a bit embarrassed. 

waiter: oh, mr willimas, it's so nice to see you. will you sign this for my little daughter, please? 

timmy: hello, mario. super, wonderful. 

timmy: just two lovely coffees, please. 

timmy: it's german television. isn't it exciting, nigel? they're doing a prize-winning documentary on me. 

timmy: thank you. and just two lovely coffees, please. 

mario: yes, sir. 

timmy: such a lovely waiter. now, go on please, this is most interesting. 

nigel: well ... er... as i was saying, timmy, my wife's gone... gone. 

nigel: i've got three children and i'm at my wits end. no job, no insurance, no money at all. i'm absolutely flat broke, i just don't know where to turn. i... i'm absolutely at the end of my tether. you're my only chance. can you help me, please, timmy? 

timmy: sorry, i was on the phone to america. it's been super having this lovely little chat. we must do this again more often. er... will you get the coffees? i'm afraid i must dash, i'm an hour late for the israeli embassy. 

timmy: er... did you get that shot all right, sound? 

timmy: it... it wasn't a bit too wicked, was it? i mean, it wasn't too cruel? 

tony and peter: no, no, no. it was great. 

timmy: no, super... well, er... i think it shows i'm human, don't you? 

tony and peter: yes, great. 

timmy: super, super. well, the charabanc's here. go on, everybody. bye. 

voice over: timmy williams' 'coffee time' was brought to you live from woppi's in holborn. 

<scene raymond luxury yacht interview>

interviewer: good evening. i have with me in the studio tonight one of the country's leading skin specialists - raymond luxury yacht. 

raymond: that's not my name. 

interviewer: i'm sorry - raymond luxury 

interviewer: yach-t 

interviewer: . 

raymond: no, no, no - it's spelt raymond luxury yach-t, but it's pronounced 'throatwobbler mangrove'. 

interviewer: you're a very silly man and i'm not going to interview you. 

raymond: ah, anti-semitism! 

interviewer: not at all. it's not even a proper nose. 

interviewer: it's polystyrene. 

raymond: give me my nose back. 

interviewer: you can collect it at reception. now go away. 

raymond: i want to be on the television. 

interviewer: well you can't. 

<scene registry office>

first man: er, excuse me, i want to get married. 

registrar: i'm afraid i'm already married, sir. 

first man: er, no, no. i just want to get married. 

registrar: i could get a divorce, i suppose, but it'll be a bit of a wrench. 

first man: er, no, no. that wouldn't be necessary because... 

registrar: you see, would you come to my place or should i have to come to yours, because i've just got a big mortgage. 

first man: no, no, i want to get married 

first man: here 

first man: . 

registrar: oh dear. i had my heart set on a church wedding. 

first man: look, i just want you to marry 

first man: me 

first man: ... to... 

registrar: i want to marry you too sir, but it's not as simple as that. you sure you want to get married? 

first man: yes. i want to get married very quickly. 

registrar: suits me, sir. suits me. 

first man: i don't want to marry you! 

registrar: there is such a thing as breach of promise, sir. 

first man: look, i just want you to act as registrar and 

first man: marry 

first man: me. 

registrar: i will marry you sir, but please make up your mind. please 

registrar: don't 

registrar: trifle with my affections. 

first man: i'm sorry, but... 

registrar: that's all right, sir. i forgive you. lovers' tiff. but you're not the first person to ask me today. i've turned down several people already. 

first man: look, i'm already engaged. 

registrar: yes, and i'm already married. still we'll get round it. 

second man: good morning. i want to get married. 

registrar: i'm afraid i'm already marrying this gentleman, sir. 

second man: well, can i get married 

second man: after 

second man: him? 

registrar: well, divorce isn't as quick as that, sir. still, if you're keen. 

third man: i want to get married, please. 

registrar: heavens, it's my lucky day, isn't it. all right, but you'll have to wait until i've married these two, sir. 

third man: what, those two getting married... nigel what are you doing marrying him? 

registrar: he's marrying me first, sir. 

third man: he's engaged to me. 

fourth man: come on, henry. 

registrar: blimey, the wife. 

second man: will 

second man: you 

second man: marry me? 

fourth man: i'm already married. 

voice over: well, things turned out all right in the end, but you musn't ask how 'cos it's naughty. they're all married and living quite well in a council estate near dulwich. 

none: animation: 'the spot' 

<scene election night special (silly and sensible parties)>

linkman: . anyway, let's go straight over to james gilbert at leicester. 

voice over: well it's a straight fight here at leicester...on the left of the returning officer 

voice over: and on the other side is the silly candidate jethro walrustitty with his agent and his wife. 

officer: here is the result for leicester. arthur j. smith... 

voice over: sensible party 

officer: 30,612...jethro q. walrustitty... 

voice over: silly party 

officer: 32,108. 

linkman: well, there's the first result and the silly party has held leicester. what do you make of that, norman? 

norman: well, this is largely as i predicted, except that the silly party won. i think this is largely due to the number of votes cast. gerald? 

gerald: well there's a swing here to the silly party...but how big a swing i'm not going to tell you. 

george: well, if i may...i think the interesting thing here is the big swing to the silly party and of course the very large swing back to the sensible party...and a tendency to wobble up and down in the middle because the screw's loose. 

alphonse: no, i'm afraid i can't think of anything. 

eric: i can't add anything to that. colin? 

colin: can i butt in at this point and say this is in fact the very first time i've appeared on television. 

linkman: no, no we haven't time, because we're just going straight over to luton. 

voice over: here at luton it's a three-cornered fight between alan jones - sensible party, in the middle, tarquin fin- tim- lim- bim- whin- bim- lim- bus- stop- f'tang- f'tang- olè- biscuitbarrel - silly party, and kevin phillips-bong, the slightly silly candidate. 

officer: alan jones... 

voice over: on the left, sensible party 

officer: 9,112... kevin phillips-bong... 

voice over: on the right, slightly silly. 

officer: nought...tarquin fin- tim- lin- bin- whin- bim- lin- bus- stop- f'tang- f'tang- olé- biscuitbarrel... 

voice over: silly. 

officer: 12,441. 

voice over: and so the silly party has taken luton. 

linkman: a gain for the silly party at luton. the first gain of the election, norman? 

norman: well this is a highly significant result. luton, normally a very sensible constituency with a high proportion of people who aren't a bit silly, has gone completely ga-ga. 

linkman: do we have the swing at luton? 

gerald: well, i've worked out the swing, but it's a secret. 

linkman: er, well, ah, there...there 

linkman: isn't 

linkman: the swing, how about a swong? 

norman: well, i've got the swong here in this box and it's looking fine. i can see through the breathing holes that it's eating up peanuts at the rate of knots. 

linkman: and how about the swang? 

alphonse: well, it's 29% up over six hunded feet but it's a little bit soft around the edges about... 

linkman: what do you make of the nylon dot cardigan and plastic mule rest? 

voice: there's no such thing. 

linkman: thank you, spike. 

norman: can i just come in here and say that the swong has choked itself to death. 

george: well, the election's really beginning to hot up now. 

eric: i can't add anything to that. 

colin: can i just add at this point that this is in fact the second time i've ever been on television? 

linkman: i'm sorry, sasha, we're just about to get another result. 

voice over: hello, from harpenden. this is a key seat because in addition to the official silly candidate there is an independent very silly candidate 

voice over: who may split the silly vote. 

officer: mrs elsie zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz... 

voice over: silly. 

officer: 26,317... james walker... 

voice over: sensible. 

officer: 26,318. 

voice over: that was close. 

officer: malcolm peter brian telescope adrian umbrella stand jasper wednesday 

officer: smith. 

voice over: very silly. 

officer: two. 

voice over: well there you have it. a sensible gain at driffield. 

linkman: norman 

norman: well, i've just heard from luton that my auntie's ill, er, possibly, possibly gastro-enteritis - gerald. 

gerald: er, well, if this were repeated over the whole country it's probably be very messy. colin. 

colin: can i just butt in and say here that it's probably the last time i shall ever appear on television. 

linkman: no i'm afraid you can't, we haven't got time. just to bring you up to date with a few results, er, that you may have missed. engelbert humperdinck has taken barrow-in-furness, that's a gain from ann haydon-jones and her husband pip. arthur negus has held bristols. that's not a result, that's a bit of gossip. er...mary whitehouse has just taken umbrage. could it be a bit of trouble there. and apparently wales is not swinging at all. no surprise there. and...monty python has held the credits. 

<scene 'the attila the hun show'>

first voice over: in the fifth century, as the once-mighty roman empire crumbled, the soft underbelly of western europe lay invitingly exposed to the barbarian hordes to the east. alaric the visigoth, galseric the vandal and theodoric the ostrogoth in turn swept westward in a reign of terror. but none surpassed in power and cruelty the mighty attila the hun. 

second voice over: ladies and gentlemen, it's the 'the attila the hun show'. 

first voice over: in the second quarter of the fifth century, the huns became a byword for merciless savagery. their khan was the mighty warrior attila. with his devastating armies he swept across central europe. 

attila: oh darling, i'm home. 

mrs attila: hello darling. had a busy day at the office? 

attila: not at all bad. 

attila: another merciless sweep across central europe. 

mrs attila: i won't say i'm glad to see you, but boy, am i glad to see you. 

jenny: hi, daddy. 

robin: hi, daddy. 

attila: hi, jenny, hi, robby. 

attila: i want you kids to get a-head. 

uncle tom: hear you are, mr hun! 

attila: hi, uncle tom. 

uncle tom: there's a whole horde of them marauding visigoths to see y'all. 

announcer: and now for something completely different. 

it's man: it's ... 

<scene attila the nun>

first voice over: yes, it's attila the nun. 

second voice over: a simple country girl who took a vow of eternal brutality. 

doctor: nurse! 

doctor: hello, miss norris. how are you? 

miss norris: not too bad, thank you, doctor. 

doctor: yes, well i think i'd better examine you. 

miss norris: what are they doing here? 

doctor: it's all right, they're students. um... lights please, nurse. 

doctor: breathe in ... out ... in ... out... 

<scene secretary of state striptease>

compère: thank you, thank you. charles crompton, the stripping doctor. and next, gentlemen and ladies, here at the peephole club for the very first time - a very big welcome please for the secretary of state for commonwealth affairs. 

minister: good evening. tonight i'd like to restate our position on agricultural subsidies, 

minister: and for world peace. thank you and goodnight. 

compère: wasn't he marvellous? the secretary of state for commonwealth affairs! and now gentlemen and ladies, a very big welcome please for the minister of pensions and social security! 

<scene vox pops on politicians>

none: cut to still of houses of parliament. slow track in. music changes to impressive patriotic music. 

voice over: yes, today in britain there is a new wave of interest in politics and politicians. 

first girl: well, we're just in it for the lobbying, you know. we just love lobbying. 

second girl: and the debates - you know a good debate ... is just... fabulous. 

third girl: well, i've been going with ministers for five years now and, you know... i think they're wonderful. 

fourth girl: oh yes, i like civil servants. 

third girl: oh yes, they're nice. 

fifth girl: i like the speaker. 

fourth girl: oh yes. 

second girl: i like black rod. 

voice over: what do their parents think? 

mr concrete: well she's broken our hearts, the little bastard. she's been nothing but trouble and if she comes round here again i'll kick her teeth in. 

<scene ratcatcher>

mrs concrete: have you been talking to television again, dear? 

mr concrete: yes, i bloody told 'em. 

mrs concrete: what about? 

mr concrete: i dunno. 

mrs concrete: was it reginald bosanquet? 

mr concrete: no, no, no. 

mrs concrete: did he have his head all bandaged? 

mr concrete: no, it wasn't like that. they had lots of lights and cameras and tape recorders and all that sort of thing. 

mrs concrete: oh, that'll be ray baxter and the boys and girls from 'tomorrow's world'. oh, i prefer reginald bosanquet, there's not so many of them. 

ratcatcher: hello - mr and mrs concrete? 

both: yes. 

ratcatcher: well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, how very nice. allow me to introduce myself. i am leslie ames, the chairman of the test selection committee, and i'm very pleased to be able to tell you that your flat has been chosen as the venue for the third test against the west indies. 

mrs concrete: really? 

ratcatcher: no, it was just a little joke. actually, i am the council ratcatcher. 

mrs concrete: oh yes, we've been expecting you. 

ratcatcher: oh, i gather you've got a little rodental problem. 

<scene wainscotting>

mrs concrete: oh, blimey. you'd think he was awake all the night, scrabbling down by the wainscotting. 

ratcatcher: um, that's an interesting word, isn't it? 

mrs concrete: what? 

ratcatcher: wainscotting ... wainscotting ... wainscotting ... sounds like a little dorset village, doesn't it? wainscotting. 

woman: we've been mentioned on telly! 

ratcatcher: now, where is it worst? 

mrs concrete: well, down here. you can usually hear them. 

ratcatcher: sssssh 

voice over: baa ... baa ... baa ... baa ... baa ... baa... 

ratcatcher: no, that's sheep you've got there. 

voice over: baa ... baa. 

ratcatcher: no, that's definitely sheep. a bit of a puzzle, really. 

mrs concrete: is it? 

ratcatcher: yeah, well, i mean it's (a) not going to respond to a nice piece of cheese and (b) it isn't going to fit into a trap. 

mrs concrete: oh - what are you going to do? 

ratcatcher: well, we'll have to look for the hole. 

mrs concrete: oh yeah. there's one here. 

ratcatcher: no, no, that's mice. 

ratcatcher: ah, this is what we're after. 

cricketer: excuse me, is the third test in here? 

mr concrete: no - that was a joke - a joke! 

cricketer: oh blimey, 

ratcatcher: right. well, i'm going in the wainscotting. 

woman: they said it again. 

ratcatcher: i'm going to lay down some sheep poison. 

ratcatcher: aagh. ooh! it's got a gun! 

mrs concrete: blimey. 

ratcatcher: now, normally a sheep is a placid, timid creature, but you've got a killer. 

<scene killer sheep>

professor: it's an entirely new strain of sheep, a killer sheep that can not only hold a rifle but is also a first-class shot. 

assistant: but where are they coming from, professor? 

professor: that i don't know. i just don't know. i really just don't know. i'm afraid i really just don't know. i'm afraid even i really just don't know. i have to tell you i'm afraid even i really just don't know. i'm afraid i have to tell you... 

professor: ... i don't know. our only clue is this portion of wolf's clothing which the killer sheep ... 

viking: ... was wearing... 

professor: ... in yesterday's raid on selfridges. 

assistant: i'll carry out tests on it straight away, professor. 

cricketer: hello, is the third test in here, please? 

assistant: professor, there are some cricketers in the laboratory. 

professor: this may be even more serious than even i had at first been imagining. what a strange... strange line. there's no time to waste. get me the chief commissioner of police. 

assistant: yes, sir! 

professor: no, no, on the phone. 

assistant: oh... 

professor: look of fear! 

professor: another strange line. look out, miss garter oil! 

assistant: professor! what is it? what have you seen? 

professor: look - there, in the doorway. 

assistant: urghhh! arthur x! leader of the pennine gang! 

none: animation: 

narrator: but soon the killer sheep began to infect other animals with its startling intelligence. pussy cats began to arrange mortgages, cocker spaniels began to design supermarkets... 

<scene the news for parrots>

parrot: and parrots started to announce television programmes. it's 8 o'clock and time for the news. 

narrator: good evening. here is the news for parrots. no parrots were involved in an accident on the m1 today when a lorry carrying high-octane fuel was in collison with a bollard. that's a 

narrator: bollard 

narrator: parrot 

narrator: in the bastille. his daughter lucy awaits her lover charles darney, who we have just learned is in fact the nephew of the marquis de st evremond, whose cruelty had placed manette in the bastille. darney arrives to find lucy tending her aged father. 

darnay: 'allo, 'allo. 

lucy: 'allo, 'allo, 'allo. 

old man: 'allo, 'allo, 'allo. 

darnay: who's a pretty boy, then? 

none: and more of the same. 

none: cut back to the narrator. 

<scene the news for gibbons>

narrator: and while that's going on, here is the news for gibbons. no gibbons were involved in... 

<scene today in parliament>

voice over: and while that's going on, here from westminster is a parliamentary report for humans. 

cyril: in the debate, a spokesman accused the goverment of being silly and doing not at all good things. the member accepted this in the spirit of healthy criticism, but denied that he had ever been naughty with a choir boy. angry shouts of 'what about the watermelon then?' were ordered then by the speaker to be stricken from the record and put into a brown paper bag in the lavvy. any further interruptions would be cut up and distributed amongst the poor. for the government, a front-bench spokesman said the agricultural tariff 

cyril: would 

cyril: have to be raised, and he fancied a bit. futhermore, he argued, this would give a large boost to farmers, him, his friends, and miss moist of knightsbridge. from the back benches there were opposition shouts of 'postcards for sale' and a healthy cry of 'who likes a sailor then?' from the minister without portfolio. replying, the shadow minister said he could no longer deny the rumors, but he and the dachshund were very happy. and in any case he argued rhubarb was cheap, and what was the harm in a sauna bath? 

<scene the news for wombats>

narrator: ...were not involved. the minister of technology 

narrator: today to discuss a £4 million airliner deal....none of them were indigenous to australia, carried their young in pouches, or ate any of those yummy eucalyptus leaves.yum yum. thats the news for wombats, and now attila the bun! 

<scene attila the bun>

none: animation: 

voice over: well that's all for attila the bun, and now - idiots! 

<scene the idiot in society>

voice over: arthur figgis is an idiot. a village idiot. tonight we look at the idiot in society. 

figgis: thank you, mrs thompson... this is the role that i and members of my family have fulfilled in this village for the past four hundred years... good morning, mr jenkins, ici have increased their half-yearly dividend, i see. 

mr jenkins: yes, splendid. 

figgis: that's mr jenkins - he's another idiot. and so you see the idiot does provide a vital psycho-social service for this community. oh, excuse me, a coach party has just arrived. i shall have to fall off the wall, i'm afraid. 

voice over: arthur takes idiotting seriously. he is up at six o'clock every morning working on special training equipment designed to keep him silly. and of course he takes great pride in his appearance. 

voice over: like the doctor, the blacksmith, the carpenter, mr figgis is an important figure in this village and - like them - he uses the local bank. 

bank manager: yes, we have quite a number of idiots banking here. 

voice over: what kind of money is there in idioting? 

manager: well nowadays a really blithering idiot can make anything up to ten thousand pounds a year - if he's the head of some big industrial combine. but of course, the more old-fashioned idiot still refuses to take money. 

manager: he takes bits of string, wood, dead budgerigars, sparrows, anything, but it does make the cashier's job very difficult; but of course they're fools to themselves because the rate of interest over ten years on a piece of moss or a dead vole is almost negligible. 

clerk: mr brando. 

manager: yes? 

clerk: hollywood on the phone. 

manager: i'll take it in the office. 

voice over: but mr figgis is no ordinary idiot. he is a lecturer in idiocy at the university of east anglia. here he is taking a class of third-year students. 

voice over: after three years of study these apprentice idiots receive a diploma of idiocy, a handful of mud and a kick on the head. 

voice over: but some of the older idiots resent the graduate idiot. 

old idiot: i'm a completely self-taught idiot. i mean, ooh arh, nob arhh, nob arhh .... nobody does that anymore. anybody who did that round here would be laughed off the street. no, nowadays people want something wittier. 

voice over: kevin o'nassis works largely with walls. 

kevin: you've got to know what you're doing. i mean, some people think i'm mad. the villagers say i'm mad, the tourists say i'm mad, well i am mad, but i'm naturally mad. i don't use any chemicals. 

voice over: but what of the idiot's private life? how about his relationship with women? 

idiot: well i may be an idiot but i'm no fool. 

voice over: but the village idiot's dirty smock and wall-falling are a far cry from the modern world of the urban idiot. 

voice over: what kinds of backgrounds do these city idiots come from? 

first city idiot: eton, sandhurst and the guards, ha, ha, ha, ha. 

second city idiot: i can't remember but i've got it written down some where. 

third city idiot: daddy's a banker. he needed a wastepaper basket. 

fourth city idiot: father was home secretary and mother won the derby. 

interviewer: the headquarters of these urban idiots is here in st john's wood. inside they can enjoy the company of other idiots and watch special performances of ritual idioting. 

first idiot: well left. 

second idiot: well played. 

third idiot: well well. 

fourth idiot: well bred. 

fifth idiot: ah! 

<scene test match>

jim: good afternoon and welcome to lords on the second day of the first test. so far today we've had five hours batting from england and already they're nought for nought. cowdrey is not out nought. naughton is not in. knott is in and is nought for not out. naughton of northants got a nasty knock on the nut in the nets last night but it's nothing of note. next in is nat newton of notts. not nutring - nutting's at nine, er, nutring knocked neatie nighty knock knock... 

jim: ... anyway england have played extremely well for nothing, not a sausage, in reply to iceland's first innings total of 722 for 2 declared, scored yesterday disappointingly fast in only twenty-one overs with lots of wild slogging and boundaries and all sorts of rubbishy things. but the main thing is that england have made an absolutely outstanding start so far, peter? 

peter: splendid. just listen to those thighs. and now it's the north east's turn with the samba. brian. 

brian: i'm reminded of the story of gubby allen in '32. .. 

jim: oh, shut up or we'll close the bar. and now bo wildeburg is running up to bowl to cowdrey, he runs up, he bowls to cowdrey... 

jim: ... and no shot at all. extremely well not played there. 

peter: yes, beautifully not done anything about. 

brian: a superb shot of no kind whatsoever. i well remember plum warner leaving a very similar ball alone in 1732. 

jim: oh shut up, long nose. 

peter: gin and tonic please. 

jim: no, no the players are having drinks. and now, what's happening? i think cowdrey's being taken off. 

jim: yes, cowdrey is being carried off. well i never. now who's in next, it should be number three, natt newton of notts... get your hand off my thigh, west... no i don't think it is... i think it's er, it's the sofa ... no it's the chesterfield! the green chesterfield is coming in at number three to take guard now. 

brian: i well remember a similar divan being brought on at headingley in 9 bc against the darkies. 

jim: oh, shut up, elephant snout. and now the green chesterfield has taken guard and iceland are putting on their spin dryer to bowl. 

jim: the spin dryer moves back to his mark, it runs out to the wicket, bowls to the table... a little bit short but it's coming in a bit there and it's hit him on the pad... and the table is out, leg before wicket. that is england nought for one. 

<scene the epsom furniture race>

different voice over: and now we leave lords and go over to epsom for the three o'clock. 

commentator: well here at epsom we take up the running with fifty yards of this mile and a half race to go and it's the wash basin in the lead from wc pedestal. tucked in nicely there is the sofa going very well with joanna southcott's box making a good run from hat stand on the rails, and the standard lamp is failing fast but it's wash basin definitely taking up the running now being strongly pressed by ... at the post it's the wash basin from wc then sofa, hat stand, standard lamp and lastly joanna southcott's box. 

<scene 'take your pick'>

bishops: open the box! open the box! open the box! open the box! open the box! 

michael miles: and could we have the next contender, please? 

michael miles: ha ha ha... good evening, madam, and your name is? 

woman: yes, yes... 

michael miles: and what's your name? 

woman: i go to church regularly. 

michael miles: jolly good, i see, and which prize do you have particular eyes on this evening? 

woman: i'd like the blow on the head. 

michael miles: the blow on the head. 

woman: just there. 

michael miles: jolly good. well your first question for the blow on the head this evening is: what great opponent of cartesian dualism resists the reduction of psychological phenomena to physical states? 

woman: i don't know that! 

michael miles: well, have a guess. 

woman: henri bergson. 

michael miles: is the correct answer! 

woman: ooh, that was lucky. i never even heard of him. 

michael miles: jolly good. 

woman: i don't like darkies. 

michael miles: ha ha ha. who does? and now your second question for the blow on the head is: what is the main food that penguins eat? 

woman: pork luncheon meat. 

michael miles: no. 

woman: spam? 

michael miles: no, no, no. what do penguins eat? penguins. 

woman: penguins? 

michael miles: yes. 

woman: i hate penguins. 

michael miles: no, no, no. 

woman: they eat themselves. 

michael miles: no, no, what do 

michael miles: penguins 

michael miles: eat? 

woman: horses! ... armchairs! 

michael miles: no, no, no. what do penguins eat? 

woman: oh, penguins. 

michael miles: penguins. 

woman: cannelloni. 

woman: lasagna, moussaka, lobster thermidor, escalopes de veau à l'estragon avec endives gratinéed with cheese. 

michael miles: no, no, no, no. i'll give you a clue. 

woman: ah! brian close. 

michael miles: no. no. 

woman: brian inglis, brian johnson, bryan forbes. 

michael miles: no, no! 

woman: nanette newman. 

michael miles: no. what swims in the sea and gets caught in nets? 

woman: goats. underwater goats with snorkels and flippers. 

michael miles: no, no. 

woman: a buffalo with an aqualung. 

woman: reginald maudling. 

michael miles: yes, that's near enough. i'll give you that. right, now, mrs scum, you have won your prize, do you still want the blow on the head? 

woman: yes, yes. 

michael miles: i'll offer you a poke in the eye. 

woman: no! i want a blow on the head. 

michael miles: a punch in the throat? 

woman: no. 

michael miles: all right then, a kick in the kneecap? 

michael miles: mrs scum, i'm offering you a boot in the teeth and a dagger up the strap? 

woman: er... 

voices: blow on the head! take the blow on the head! 

woman: no, no. i'll take the blow on the head. 

michael miles: very well then, mrs scum, you have won tonight's star prize, the blow on the head. 

<scene >

<scene trailer>

voice over: here is a preview of some of the programmes you'll be able to see coming shortly on bbc television. to kick off with there's variety ... 

voice over: and of course there'll be sport. but now for something completely different - sport. 

<scene 'archaeology today'>

none: animation: 

interviewer: hello. on 'archaeology today' tonight i have with me professor lucien kastner of oslo university. 

kastner: good evening. 

interviewer: how tall are you, professor? 

kastner: ... i beg your pardon? 

interviewer: how tall are you? 

kastner: i'm about five foot ten. 

interviewer: ... and an expert in egyptian tomb paintings. sir robert... 

interviewer: are you really five foot ten? 

kastner: yes. 

interviewer: funny, you look much shorter than that to me. are you slumped forward in your chair at all? 

kastner: no, er i... 

interviewer: extraordinary. sir robert eversley, who's just returned from the excavations in el ara, and you must be well over six foot. isn't that right, sir robert? 

sir robert: yes. 

interviewer: in fact, i think you're six foot five aren't you? 

interviewer: oh, that's marvelous. i mean you're a totally different kind of specimen to professor kastner. straight in your seat, erect, firm. 

sir robert: yes. i thought we were here to discuss archaeology. 

interviewer: yes, yes, of course we are, yes, absolutely, you're absolutely right! that's positive thinking for you. 

interviewer: sir robert eversley, who's very interesting, what have you discovered in the excavations at el ara? 

sir robert: well basically we have found a complex of tombs... 

interviewer: very good speaking voice. 

sir robert: ... which present dramatic evidence of polynesian influence in egypt in the third dynasty which is quite remarkable. 

interviewer: how tall were the polynesians? 

kastner: they were... 

interviewer: sh! 

sir robert: well, they were rather small, seafaring... 

interviewer: short men, were they... eh? all squat and bent up? 

sir robert: well, i really don't know about that... 

interviewer: who were the tall people? 

sir robert: i'm afraid i don't know. 

interviewer: who's that very tall tribe in africa? 

sir robert: well, this is hardly archaeology. 

interviewer: the watutsi! that's it - the watutsi! oh, that's the tribe, some of them were eight foot tall. can you imagine that. eight foot of watutsi. not one on another's shoulders, oh no - eight foot of solid watutsi. that's what i call tall. 

sir robert: yes, but it's nothing to do with archaeology. 

interviewer: oh to hell with archaeology! 

kastner: can i please speak! i came all the way from oslo to do this program! i'm a professor of archaeology. i'm an expert in ancient civilizations. all right, i'm only five foot ten. all right my posture is bad, all right i slump in my chair. but i've had more women than either of you two! i've had half bloody norway, that's what i've had! so you can keep your robert eversley! and you can keep your bloody watutsi! i'd rather have my little body... my little five-foot-ten-inch body... 

sir robert: bloody fool. look what you've done to him. 

interviewer: don't bloody fool me. 

sir robert: i'll do what i like, because i'm six foot five and i eat punks like you for breakfast. 

interviewer: i'll get you for that, eversley! i'll get you if i have to travel to the four corners of the earth! 

danielle: the dig was going well that year, we had discovered some hittite baking dishes from the fifth dynasty, and sir robert was happier than i had ever seen him. 

sir robert: today i hear the robin sing 

sir robert: today the thrush is on the wing 

sir robert: today who knows what life will bring 

sir robert: today... 

sir robert: why, a sumerian drinking vessel of the fourth dynasty. 

sir robert: catalogue this pot, danielle, it's fourth dynasty. 

danielle: oh, is it... ? 

sir robert: yes, it's... sumerian. 

danielle: oh, how wonderful! oh, i am so happy for you. 

sir robert: i'm happy too, now at last we know there was a sumerian influence here in abu simnel in the early pre-dynastic period, two thousand years before the reign of tutankhamun, 

interviewer: all right eversley, get up out of that trench. 

sir robert: don't forget... i'm six foot five. 

interviewer: that doesn't worry me... kastner. 

kastner: here lord. 

interviewer: up! 

sir robert: eleven foot three! 

kastner: i'm so tall! i am so tall! 

sir robert: danielle! 

interviewer: eleven foot six - damn you! abdul 

sir robert: fifteen foot four! mustapha! 

interviewer: nineteen foot three... damn you! 

interviewer: and there we end this edition of 'archaeology today'. next week, the silbury dig by cole porter with pearl bailey and arthur negus. 

voice over: and now an appeal for sanity from the reverend arthur belling. 

reverend belling: you know, there are many people in the country today who, through no fault of their own, are sane. some of them were born sane. some of them became sane later in their lives. it is up to people like you and me who are out of our tiny little minds to try and help these people overcome their sanity. you can start in small ways with ping-pong ball eyes and a funny voice and then you can paint half of your body red and the other half green and then you can jump up and down in a bowl of treacle going 'squawk, squawk, squawk...' and then you can go 'neurhhh! neurhh!' and then you can roll around on the floor going 'pting pting pting' ... 

voice over: the reverend arthur belling is vicar of st loony up the cream bun and jam. and now an appeal on behalf of the national trust. 

woman: good evening. my name is leapy lee. no, sorry. that's the name of me favourite singer. my name is mrs fred stone. no, no, mrs fred stone is the wife of me favourite tennis player. my name is bananas. no, no, that's me favourite fruit. i'm mrs nice- evening- out- at- the- pictures- then- perhaps- a- dance- at- a- club- and- back- to- his- place- for- a- quick- cup- of- coffee- and- little- bit- of - no! no, sorry, that's me favourite way of spending a night out. perhaps i am leapy lee? yes! i must be leapy lee! hello fans! leapy lee here! 

woman: good evening. i'm mrs what-number-are-you-dialing-please? 

<scene registrar (wife swap)>

man: good morning. 

registrar: good morning. 

man: are you the registrar? 

registrar: i have that function. 

man: i was here on saturday, getting married to a blond girl, and i'd like to change please. i'd like to have this one instead please. 

registrar: what do you mean? 

man: er, well, the other one wasn't any good, so i'd like to swap it for this one, please. er, i have paid. i paid on saturday. here's the ticket. 

registrar: ah, oh, no. that was when you were married. 

man: er, yes. that was when i was married to the wrong one. i didn't like the colour. this is the one i want to have, so if you could just change the forms round i can take this one back with me now. 

registrar: i can't do that. 

man: look, make it simpler, i'll pay again. 

registrar: no, you can't 

registrar: do 

registrar: that. 

man: look, all i want you to do is change the wife, say the words, blah, blab, blah, back to my place, no questions asked. 

registrar: i'm sorry sir, but we're not allowed to change. 

man: you can at harrods. 

registrar: you can't. 

man: you can. i changed my record player and there wasn't a grumble. 

registrar: it's different. 

man: and i changed my pet snake, and i changed my robin day tie. 

registrar: well, you can't change a bloody wife! 

man: oh, all right! well, can i borrow one for the weekend. 

registrar: no! 

man: oh, blimey, i only wanted a jolly good... 

referee: all right, break it up. what's your number, then? all right. name? 

man: cook. 

doctor: next please. name? 

watson: er, watson. 

doctor: mr watson. 

watson: ah, no, doctor. 

doctor: ah, mr doctor. 

watson: no, not mr, doctor. 

doctor: oh, 

doctor: doctor 

doctor: doctor. 

watson: no, doctor 

watson: watson 

watson: . 

doctor: oh, doctor 

doctor: watson 

watson: oh, just call me darling. 

doctor: hello, mr darling. 

watson: no, doctor. 

doctor: hello doctor darling. 

<scene mr and mrs git>

host: ah, john. allow me to introduce my next-door neighbour. john stokes, this is a snivelling little rat-faced git. ah! 

mr git: hello, i noticed a slight look of anxiety cross your face for a moment just then, but you needn't worry - i'm used to it. that's the trouble of having a surname like git. 

john: oh ... yes, yes. 

mr git: we did think once of having it changed by deed-poll, you know - to watson or something like that. but a snivelling little rat-faced watson's just as bad eh? 

john: yes, yes, i suppose so. 

mr git: oh, that's my wife. darling! come and meet mr... what was it? 

john: stokes - john stokes. 

mr git: oh yes. john stokes, this is my wife, dreary fat boring old. 

john: oh, er, how do you do. 

mrs git: how do 

mrs git: you 

mrs git: do. 

mrs stokes: darling, there you are! 

john: yes, yes, here i am, yes. 

mr git: oh, is this your wife? 

john: yes, yes, yes, this is the wife. yes. um darling, these, these are the gits. 

mrs stokes: what? 

john: the gits. 

mr git: oh, heaven's sakes we are being formal. does it have to be surnames? 

john: oh, no, no. not at all. no. um, no, this... this... this is my wife norah, er, norah jane, norah jane stokes. this is snivelling little rat-faced git. and this is his wife dreary fat boring old git. 

mr git: i was just telling your husband what an awful bore it is having a surname like git. 

mrs stokes: oh oh well, it's not that bad. 

mr git: oh, you've no idea how the kids get taunted. why, only last week dirty lying little two-faced came running home from school, sobbing his eyes out, and our youngest, ghastly spotty horrible vicious little is just at the age when taunts like 'she's a git' really hurt. yes. 

john: do ... do you live round here? 

mr git: yes, we live up the road, number 49 - you can't miss it. we've just had the outside painted with warm pus. 

john: oh. 

mr git: yes. it's very nice actually. it goes nicely with the vomit and catarrh we've got smeared all over the front door. 

mrs stokes: i think we ought to be going. we have two children to collect. 

mr git: oh, well, bring them round for tea tomorrow. 

mrs stokes: well... 

mr git: it's ghastly spotty cross-eyed's birthday and she's having a disembowelling party for a few friends. the nauseas will be there, and doug and janice mucus, and the rectums from swanage. 

host: john! allow me to introduce our next-door neighhour. john, this is mr watson. 

watson: hello. i noticed a slight look of anxiety cross your face just then but you needn't worry. 

nun: i preferred the dirty version. 

<scene mosquito hunters>

none: big close-up hank spim (face only). he is obviously walking along, the camera is following him hand held. 

hank: well, i've been a hunter all my life. i love animals. that's why i like to kill 'em. i wouldn't kill an animal i didn't like. goodday roy. 

voice over: hank and roy spim are tough, fearless backwoodsmen who have chosen to live in a violent, unrelenting world of nature's creatures, where only the fittest survive. today they are off to hunt mosquitoes. 

roy: the mosquito's a clever little bastard. you can track him for days and days until you really get to know him like a friend. he knows you're there, and you know he's there. it's a game of wits. you hate him, then you respect him, then you kill him. 

voice over: suddenly hank spots the mosquito they're after. 

voice over: now more than ever, they must rely on the skills they have learnt from a lifetime's hunting. 

roy: there's nothing more dangerous than a wounded mosquito. 

voice over: but the hunt is not over. with well practised skill hank skins the mosquito. 

voice over: here, surrounded by their trophies roy and hank prepare for a much tougher ordeal - a moth hunt. 

hank: well, i follow the moth in the helicopter to lure it away from the flowers, and then roy comes along in the lockheed starfighter and attacks it with air-to-air missiles. 

roy: a lot of people have asked us why we don't use fly spray. well, where's the sport in that? 

voice over: for roy, sport is everything. ever since he lost his left arm battling with an ant, roy has risked his life in the pursuit of tiny creatures. 

voice over: wherever there is a challenge, hank and roy spim will be there ready to carry on this primordial struggle between man and inoffensive, tiny insects. 

first judge: oh, i've had such a morning in the high court. i could stamp my little feet the way those qc's carry on. 

second judge: don't i know it, love. 

first judge: objection here, objection there! and that nice policeman giving his evidence so well - beautiful speaking voice ... well after a bit all i could do was bang my little gavel. 

second judge: you what, love? 

first judge: i banged me gavel. i did me 'silence in court' bit. ooh! if looks could kill that prosecuting counsel would be in for thirty years. how did your summing up go? 

second judge: well, i was quite pleased actually. i was trying to do my butch voice, you know, 'what the jury must understand', and they loved it, you know. i could see that foreman eyeing me. 

first judge: really? 

second judge: yes, cheeky devil. 

first judge: was he that tall man with that very big... ? 

second judge: no, just a minute - i must finish you know. anyway, i finished up with 'the actions of these vicious men is a violent stain on the community and the full penalty of the law is scarcely sufficient to deal with their ghastly crimes', and i waggled my wig! just ever so slightly, but it was a stunning effect. 

first judge: oh, i bet it was... like that super time i wore that striped robe in the magistrates court. 

second judge: oh, aye. 

<scene mrs thing and mrs entity>

first pepperpot: hello, mrs thing. 

second pepperpot: hello, mrs entity. 

first pepperpot: how are you then? 

second pepperpot: oh, i have had a morning. 

first pepperpot: busy? 

second pepperpot: busy - huh! i got up at five o'dock, i made myself a cup of tea, i looked out of the window. well, by then i was so worn out i had to come and have a sit-down. i've been here for seven hours. 

first pepperpot: you must be exhausted. 

second pepperpot: mm. oh, have you been shopping? 

first pepperpot: no, i've been shopping. 

second pepperpot: funny. 

first pepperpot: i'm worn out. i've been shopping for six hours. 

second pepperpot: what have you bought, then? 

first pepperpot: nothing. nothing at all. a complete waste of time. 

second pepperpot: wicked, isn't it? 

first pepperpot: wicked. it'll be worse when we join the common market. 

second pepperpot: that nice mr heath would never allow that. 

first pepperpot: it's funny he never married. 

second pepperpot: he's a bachelor. 

first pepperpot: oooh! that would explain it, oh dear me, this chatting away wears me out. 

second pepperpot: yes. i bet mrs reginald maudling doesn't have to put up with all this drudgery, getting up at five in the morning, making a cup of tea, looking out of the window, chatting away. 

first pepperpot: no! it'd all be done for her. 

second pepperpot: yes, she'd have the whole day free for playing snooker. 

first pepperpot: she probably wouldn't go through all the drudgery of playing snooker, day in, day out. 

second pepperpot: no, it would all be done for her. she wouldn't even have to lift the cue. 

first pepperpot: she probably doesn't even know where the billlard room is. 

second pepperpot: no, still, it's not as bad as the old days. mrs stanley baldwin used to have to get up at five o'clock in the morning and go out and catch partridges with her bare hands. 

first pepperpot: yes... and mrs william pitt the elder used to have to get up at three o'clock and go burrowing for truffles with the bridge of her nose. 

second pepperpot: mrs beethoven used to have to get up at midnight to spur on the mynah bird. 

first pepperpot: lazy creatures, mynah birds,.. 

second pepperpot: yes. when beethoven went deaf the mynah bird just used to mime. 

first pepperpot: ooh! what's happening? 

second pepperpot: it's all right. it's only a flashback. 

<scene beethoven's mynah bird>

beethoven: you don't fool me, you stupid mynah bird. i'm not deaf yet. 

mynah: just you wait... ha, ha, ha, ha, ha! 

beethoven: shut up! 

mynah: right in the wing. 

beethoven: shut your beak. gott in himmel... i never get any peace here. 

mrs beethoven: ludwig! 

beethoven: what? 

mrs beethoven: have you seen the sugar bowl? 

beethoven: no, i haven't seen the bloody sugar bowl. 

mrs beethoven: you know ... the 

mrs beethoven: sugar 

mrs beethoven: bowl. 

beethoven: sod the sugar bowl... i'm trying to finish this stinking tune! it's driving me spare ... so shut up! 

beethoven: no, no, no, no, no. 

mrs beethoven: ludwig, have you seen the jam spoon? 

beethoven: stuff the jam spoon! 

mrs beethoven: it was in the sugar bowl. 

beethoven: look, get out you old rat-bag. buzz off and shut up. 

mrs beethoven: i don't know what you see in that piano. 

beethoven: leave me alone!! ... 

beethoven: ... ha! ha! ha! i've done it, i've done it! 

mrs beethoven: do you want peanut butter or sandwich spread for your tea? 

beethoven: what!!!! 

mrs beethoven: peanut butter... 

beethoven: i've forgotten it. 

beethoven: i had it! i had it! 

mrs beethoven: do you want peanut butter or sandwich spread? 

beethoven: i don't care!! 

mrs beethoven: ooooh! i don't know. 

beethoven: i 

beethoven: had 

beethoven: what's that! what's that! 

mrs beethoven: it's the plumber! 

beethoven: gott in himmel, i'm going out. 

mrs beethoven: well, if you're going out don't forget we've got the mendelssohns coming for tea so don't forget to order some pikelets. 

beethoven: pikelets, pikelets. shakespeare never had this trouble. 

<scene shakespeare>

shakespeare: you wanna bet? incidentally, its da-da-da-dum, da-da-da-dum. 

beethoven: you're right. oh, incidentally, why not call him hamlet? 

shakespeare: hamlet i like much better than david. 

shakespeare: use david. i won't sue 

<scene michaelangelo>

michelangelo: thanks, but i've had a better idea. 

michelangelo: yes, dear! 

wife: i've had another son. 

michelangelo: oh, my life. 

<scene colin mozart (ratcatcher)>

mozart: composer? huh! i wouldn't wish it on my son. he's a sensitive boy, already. i'd rather he was a sewage attendant or a ratcatcher. 

colin mozart: aha! rats at 42a kartoffelnstrasse. hey mitzi! i gotta go to potato street. 

colin mozart: depressed by rats? do mice get you down? then why not visit colin mozart's rodent extermination boutique. rats extirpated, mice punished, voles torn apart by colin mozart, munich's leading furry animal liquidator. 

mrs beethoven: yes? 

colin mozart: colin mozart. 

mrs beethoven: oh, thank goodness you've come. we're having a terrible time with them bleeding rats. i think they live in his stupid piano already. 

beethoven's voice: get out the bloody piano you stupid furry bucktoothed gits! get out! gott in himmel. get your stinking tail out of my face. 

beethoven: shut up! 

second pepperpot: so anyway, beethoven was rather glad when he went deaf. 

first judge: well, i was ever so glad they abolished hanging, you know, because that black cap just didn't suit me. 

second judge: yes. do you remember the glasgow treason trial? 

first judge: oh yes, i wore a body stocking all through it. 

second judge: no, hen, with the party afterwards. 

first judge: oh, that's right. you were walking out with that very butch clerk of the court. 

second judge: that's right. ooh, he made me want to turn queen's evidence. 

first judge: oh, me too. one summing up and i'm anybody's. 

second judge: anyway, bailie anderson. 

first judge: ooh, her? 

second judge: yes. she's so strict. she was on at me for giving dolly sentences, you know, specially in that arson case. 

first judge: what was the verdict? 

second judge: they preferred the brown wig. 

first judge: mm. i love the scottish assizes. i know what they mean by a really well-hung jury. 

second judge: ooh! get back in the witness box, you're too sharp to live! 

first judge: i'll smack your little botty! 

second judge: ooh! and again. 

first judge: have you tried that new body rub jp's use? 

second judge: i had a magistrate in bradford yesterday. 

first judge: funnily enough i felt like one in a lunchtime recess today. 

first judge: but the ones i really like are those voice over announcers on the bbc after the programs are over. 

second judge: oh, aye, of course, they're as bent as safety pins. 

first judge: i know, but they've got beautiful speaking voices, haven't they? 'and now a choice of viewing on bbc television.' 

second judge: 'here are tonight's football results.' 

first and second judges: mmm. 

<scene >

announcer: and now for something completely different. 

it's man: it's... 

<scene 'how to recognize different parts of the body'>

voice over: how to recognize different parts of the body. 

voice over: number one. the foot. 

voice over: number two. the shoulder. 

voice over: and number three. the other foot. 

voice over: number four. the bridge of the nose. 

voice over: number five. the naughty bits. 

voice over: number six. just above the elbow. 

voice over: number seven. two inches to the right of a very naughty bit indeed. 

voice over: number eight. the kneecap. 

<scene bruces>

second bruce: goodday, bruce! 

first bruce: oh, hello bruce! 

third bruce: how are yer bruce? 

first bruce: bit crook, bruce. 

second bruce: where's bruce? 

first bruce: he's not here, bruce. 

third bruce: blimey, s'hot in here, bruce. 

first bruce: s'hot enough to boil a monkey's bum! 

second bruce: that's a strange expression, bruce. 

first bruce: well bruce, i heard the prime minister use it. s'hot enough to boil a monkey's bum in 'ere, your majesty,' he said and she smiled quietly to herself. 

third bruce: she's a good sheila, bruce and not at all stuck up. 

second bruce: ah, here comes the bossfella now! - how are you, bruce? 

fourth bruce: goodday, bruce, hello bruce, how are you, bruce? gentlemen, i'd like to introduce a chap from pommie land... who'll be joining us this year here in the philosophy department of the university of woolamaloo. 

all: goodday. 

fourth bruce: michael baldwin - this is bruce. michael baldwin - this is bruce. michael baldwin - this is bruce. 

first bruce: is your name not bruce, then? 

michael: no, it's michael. 

second bruce: that's going to cause a little confusion. 

third bruce: mind if we call you 'bruce' to keep it clear? 

fourth bruce: well, gentlemen, i think we'd better start the meeting. before we start, though, i'll ask the padre for a prayer. 

first bruce: oh lord, we beseech thee, have mercy on our faculty, amen!! 

all: amen! 

fourth bruce: crack the tubes, right! 

fourth bruce: er, bruce, i now call upon you to welcome mr. baldwin to the philosophy department. 

second bruce: i'd like to welcome the pommy bastard to god's own earth, and i'd like to remind him that we don't like stuck-up sticky-beaks here. 

all: hear, hear! well spoken, bruce! 

fourth bruce: now, bruce teaches classical philosophy, bruce teaches haegelian philosophy, and bruce here teaches logical positivism, and is also in charge of the sheepdip. 

third bruce: what's does new bruce teach? 

fourth bruce: new bruce will be teaching political science - machiavelli, bentham, locke, hobbes, sutcliffe, bradman, lindwall, miller, hassett, and benet. 

second bruce: those are cricketers, bruce! 

fourth bruce: oh, spit! 

third bruce: howls of derisive laughter, bruce! 

fourth bruce: in addition, as he's going to be teaching politics, i've told him he's welcome to teach any of the great socialist thinkers, provided he makes it clear that they were 

fourth bruce: wrong 

fourth bruce: . 

fourth bruce: any questions? 

second bruce: new bruce - are you a pooftah? 

fourth bruce: are you a pooftah? 

michael: no! 

fourth bruce: no right, well gentlemen, i'll just remind you of the faculty rules: rule one - no pooftahs. rule two, no member of the faculty is to maltreat the abbos in any way whatsoever - if there's anybody watching. rule three - no pooftahs. rule four - i don't want to catch anyone not drinking in their room after lights out. rule five - no pooftahs. rule six - there is 

fourth bruce: no 

fourth bruce: rule six! rule seven - no pooftahs. that concludes the reading of the rules, bruce. 

first bruce: this here's the wattle - the emblem of our land. you can stick it in a bottle or you can hold it in your hand. 

fourth bruce: gentlemen, at six o'clock i want every man-bruce of you in the sydney harbour bridge room to take a glass of sherry with the flying philosopher, bruce, and i call upon you, padre, to close the meeting with a prayer. 

first bruce: oh lord, we beseech thee etc. etc. etc., amen. 

first bruce: right, let's get some sheilas. 

fourth bruce: ok. 

second bruce: ah, elevenses. 

third bruce: this should tide us over 'til lunchtime. 

second bruce: reckon so, bruce. 

first bruce: sydney nolan! what's that! 

<scene naughty bits>

voice over: number nine. the ear. 

voice over: number ten. the big toe. 

voice over: number eleven. more naughty bits. 

voice over: number twelve. the naughty bits of a lady, 

voice over: number thirteen. the naughty bits of a horse, 

voice over: number fourteen. the naughty bits of an ant. 

voice over: number fifteen. the naughty bits of reginald maudling. 

voice over: number sixteen. the hand. 

<scene the man who contradicts people>

interviewer: good evening. i have with me in the studio tonight mr norman st. john polevaulter, who for the last few years has been contradicting people...mr polevaulter, why do you contradict people? 

polevaulter: i don't! 

interviewer: you told me that you did. 

polevaulter: i most certainly did not! 

interviewer: oh. i see. i'll start again. 

polevaulter: no you won't! 

interviewer: ssh! mr polevaulter i understand you don't contradict people. 

polevaulter: yes i do! 

interviewer: and when 

interviewer: didn't 

interviewer: you start contradicting people? 

polevaulter: well i did, in 1952. 

interviewer: 1952? 

polevaulter: 1947. 

interviewer: twenty-three years ago. 

polevaulter: no! 

announcer: and so on and so on and so on. and now... 

voice over: number seventeen. the top of the head. 

voice over: number eighteen...the feather, rare. 

<scene cosmetic surgery>

voice over: number nineteen. the nose. 

specialist: come in. 

specialist: ah! mr luxury yacht. do sit down, please. 

mr luxury yacht: ah, no, no. my name is 

mr luxury yacht: spelt 

mr luxury yacht: 'luxury yacht' but it's pronounced 'throatwobbler mangrove'. 

specialist: well, do sit down then mr throatwobbler mangrove. 

mr luxury yacht: thank you. 

specialist: now, what seems to be the trouble? 

mr luxury yacht: um, i'd like you to perform some plastic surgery on me. 

specialist: i see. and which particular feature of your anatomy is causing you distress? 

mr luxury yacht: well, well for a long time now, in fact, even when i was a child ... i ... you know, whenever i left home to ... catch a bus, or... to catch a train... and even my tennis has suffered actually... 

specialist: yes. to be absolutely blunt you're worried about your enormous hooter. 

mr luxury yacht: no! 

specialist: no? 

mr luxury yacht: yes. 

specialist: yes, and you want me to hack a bit off. 

mr luxury yacht: please. 

specialist: fine. it is a startler, isn't it? er, do you mind if i... er. 

mr luxury yacht: what? 

specialist: oh, no nothing, then, well, i'll just examine your nose. 

specialist: mr luxury yacht, this nose of yours is false. it's made of polystyrene and your own hooter's a beaut. no pruning necessary. 

mr luxury yacht: i'd still like the operation. 

specialist: well, you've had the operation, you strange person. 

mr luxury yacht: please do an operation. 

specialist: well, all right, all right, but only ... if you come on a camping holiday with me. 

mr luxury yacht: he asked me! he asked me! 

<scene camp square-bashing>

interviewer: next week we'll be showing you how to pick up an architect, how to pull a prime minister, and how to have fun with a wholesale poulterer. but now the men of the derbyshire light infantry entertain us with a precision display of bad temper. 

voice over: attention 

interviewer: and next the men of the second armoured division regale us with their famous close order swanning about. 

interviewer: and finally... 

none: animation: 

<scene cut-price airline>

none: cut to air terminal. pan along official air-terminal-type signs saying bea, twa, air india, boac, the verrifast plaine company ltd. pan down to reveal a checking-in desk. a man with porter's cap comes in, carrying two bags. he is followed by mr and mrs irrelevant. he puts their cases down, hangs around and gets a tip. he goes behind the counter, takes off his porter's hat, puts on an airline-pilot-type cap, and puts on a moustache. there is a vicar standing next to him with an eye patch. 

man: morning sir, can i help you? 

mr irrelevant: er, yes, we've booked on your flight for america. 

man: oh, we don't fly to america ... 

man: oh, the american flight... er, on the plane ... oh yes, oh we do that, all right. safe as houses, no need for panic. 

mrs irrelevant: is it really 37/6d? 

man: thirty bob. i'm robbing myself. 

mr irrelevant: thirty bob! 

man: twenty-five. two quid the pair of yer. er, that's without insurance. 

mr irrelevant: well, how much is it with insurance? 

man: hundred and two quid. that's including the flight. 

mr irrelevant: do we really need insurance? 

man: no. 

man: yes, essential. 

mr irrelevant: well, we'll have it with insurance please. 

man: right - do you want it with the body and one relative flown back, or you can have both bodies flown back and no relatives, or four relatives, no bodies, and the ashes sent by parcel post. 

mr irrelevant: how long will it take? 

man: er, let me put it this way - no idea. 

vicar: six hours. 

mr irrelevant: six? 

man: five, ten for the pair of you. 

mrs irrelevant: oh, is it a jet? 

man: well, no ... it's not so much of a jet, it's more your, er, triumph herald engine with wings. 

mr irrelevant: when are you taking off?. 

man: 3300 hours. 

mr irrelevant: what? 

man: 2600 hours for the pair of you. 

mrs irrelevant: what? 

man: have the injections, you won't care. 

mr irrelevant: what injections? 

man: barley sugar injections. calm you down. they're compulsory - board of trade. promise. 

mrs irrelevant: oh, i don't like the sound of injections. 

man: you've got to make your mind up straight away if you're coming or not. 

mr and mrs irrelevant: yes. 

man: right, you can't change your mind. i'll ring the departure lounge. 

man: hello? two more on their way, mrs turpin. 

mrs turpin: now, the duty-free trolley is over there ... there's some lovely drop scones and there's duty-free broccoli and there's fresh eccles cakes. you're allowed two hundred each on the plane. 

mrs turpin: the verrifast plane company announce the departure of flight one to over the hills and far away. will passengers for flight one, please assemble at gate one. passengers are advised that there is still plenty of time to buy eccles cakes. 

man: nearly ready. 

mrs turpin: all passengers please get ready for their barley sugar injections. 

mrs turpin: that's mr kamikaze, the pilot, he's very nice really, but make sure he stays clear of battleships. 

voice over: there have been many stirring tales told of the sea and also some fairly uninteresting ones only marginally connected with it, like this one. sorry, this isn't a very good announcement. sorry. 

announcer: and here is the result of the 'where to put edward heath's statue competition. the winner was a mr ivy north who wins ten guineas and a visit to the sailors quarters. 

<scene batley townswomen's guild presents the first heart transplant>

announcer: that was last year's re-enactment of the battle of pearl harbor performed by the batley townswomen's guild. it was written, directed and produced by mrs rita fairbanks. 

rita: hello again. 

voice over: and what are your ladies going to do for us this year? 

rita: well, this year we decided to re-enact something with a more modern flavour. we had considered a version of michael stewart's speech on nigeria and there were several votes on the committee for a staging of herr willi brandt's visit to east germany, but we've settled instead for a dramatization of the first heart transplant. incidentally my sister madge will be playing the plucky little springbok pioneer christian barnard. 

voice over: well off we go, then with the barley townswomen's guild re-enactment of the first heart transplant. 

<scene the first underwater production of 'measure for measure'>

announcer: the first heart transplant. but this is not the only open-air production here that has used the sea. theatrical managers in this area have not been slow to appreciate the sea's tremendous dramatic value. and somewhere, out in this bay, is the first underwater production of 'measure for measure'. 

character: servant ho! 

announcer: the underwater version of 'measure for measure', and further out to sea 'hello dolly' is also doing good business. 

announcer: ... and over there on the oyster beds formula 2 car racing. 

none: animation: 

voice over: number twenty. the armpits. 

none: cut to picture of a person. superimposed white arrow on the neck. 

voice over: number twenty-one. the bottom two-thirds of the nape of the neck. 

voice over: number twenty-two. the nipple. 

<scene the death of mary queen of scots>

announcer's voice: ...and that concludes the week's episode of 'how to recognize different parts of the body', adapted for radio by ann haydon-jones and her husband, pip. and now we present the first episode of a new radio drama series, 'the death of mary, queen of scots.' part one: the beginning. 

radio announcer: episode two of 'the death of mary, queen of scots', can be heard on radio 4 almost immediately. 

announcer's voice: that was episode two of 'the death of mary, queen of scots', adapted for radio by bernard hollowood and brian london. and now, radio four will explode. 

<scene exploding penguin on tv set>

first pepperpot: we'll have to watch the telly then. 

second pepperpot: yes 

first pepperpot: what's that on the tellevision then? 

second pepperpot: looks like a penguin. 

first pepperpot: no, no, no, i didn't mean what's on the television set, i meant what programme. 

second pepperpot: oh. 

second pepperpot: it's funny that penguin being there innit? what's it doing there? 

first pepperpot: standing. 

second pepperpot: i can see that! 

first pepperpot: if it lays an egg, it will fall down the back of the television set. 

second pepperpot: we'll have to watch that. unless it's a male. 

first pepperpot: ooh, i never thought of that. 

second pepperpot: yes, looks fairly butch. 

first pepperpot: per'aps it's from next door. 

second pepperpot: penguins don't come from next door, they come from the antarctic. 

first pepperpot: burma. 

second pepperpot: why did say burma? 

first pepperpot: i panicked. 

second pepperpot: oh. perhaps it's from the zoo. 

first pepperpot: which zoo? 

second pepperpot: how should i know which zoo? i'm not doctor bloody bernowski. 

first pepperpot: how does doctor bernowski know which zoo it came from? 

second pepperpot: he knows everything. 

first pepperpot: oooh, i wouldn't like that, that'd take all the mystery out of life. anyway, if it came from the zoo, it would have 'property of the zoo' stamped on it. 

second pepperpot: no it wouldn't. they don't stamp animals 'property of the zoo'. you can't stamp a huge lion. 

first pepperpot: they stamp them when they're small. 

second pepperpot: what happens when they moult? 

first pepperpot: lions don't moult. 

second pepperpot: no, but penguins do. there, i've run rings around you logically. 

first pepperpot: oh, intercourse the penguin. 

tv announcer: it's just gone 8 o'clock and time for the penguin on top of your television set to explode. 

first pepperpot: how did he know that was going to happen?! 

tv announcer: it was an inspired guess. and now... 

voice over: number twenty-three. the shin. 

voice over: number twenty-four. reginald's maulding's shin 

voice over: number twenty-five. the brain. 

voice over: number twenty-six. magaret thatcher's brain. 

voice over: number twenty-seven. more naughty bits. 

voice over: number twenty-eight. the naughty bits of the cabinet. 

voice over: number twenty-nine. the interior of a country house. 

<scene there's been a murder>

doctor: that's not a part of the body. 

mother: no, it's a link though. 

son: i didn't think it was very good. 

doctor: no, it's the end of the series, they must be running out of ideas. 

muffin: all right, don't anybody move, there's been a murder. 

mother: a murder? 

muffin: no... no ... not a murder... no what's like a murder but begins with b? 

son: birmingham. 

muffin: no ... no ... no ... no ... no... 

doctor: burnley? 

muffin: burnley - that's right! burnley in lancashire. there's been a burnley. 

son: burglary. 

muffin: burglary. yes, good man. burglary - that's it, of course. there's been a burglary. 

doctor: where? 

muffin: in the back, just below the rib. 

doctor: no - that's murder. 

muffin: oh... er no... in the band... in the bat... barclays bat. 

son: barclays bank? 

muffin: yes. nasty business - got away with £23,000. 

son: any clues? 

muffin: any what? 

son: any evidence as to who did it? 

muffin: any clues, eh? oh, we don't half talk posh, don't we? i suppose you say 'ehnvelope' and 'larngerie' and 'sarndwiches on the settee'! well this is a murder investigation, young man, and murder is a very serious business. 

doctor: i thought you said it was a burglary. 

muffin: burglary is almost as serious a business as murder. some burglaries are more serious than murder. a burglary in which someone gets stabbled is murder! so don't come these petty distinctions with me. you're as bad as a judge. right, now! the first thing to do in the event of a breach of the peace of any kind, is to... go... 

muffin: and ... oh, sorry, sorry, i was miles away. 

doctor: ring the police? 

muffin: ring the police. yes, that's a good idea. get them over here fast ... no, on second thoughts, get them over here slowly, so they don't drop anything. 

mother: shall i make us all a cup of tea? 

muffin: make what you like, boskovitch - it won't help you in court. 

mother: i 

mother: beg 

mother: your pardon? 

muffin: i'm sorry, sorry. that's the trouble with being on two cases at once. i keep thinking i've got boskovitch cornered and in fact i'm investigating a burnley. 

muffin: burglary! yes - good man. 

doctor: who's boskovitch? 

muffin: hah! boskovitch is a russian scientist who is passing information to the russians. 

son: classified information? 

muffin: oh, there he goes again! 'classified information'! oh, sitting on the 'settee' with our 'scones' and our 'classified information'! 

<scene europolice song contest>

muffin: ah! hello, duckie. 

duckie: hello, sir. how are you? 

muffin: i'm fine thanks. how are you? 

duckie: well, sir, i'm a little bit moody today, sir. 

muffin: why's that, duckie? 

duckie: because... 

duckie: i'm a little bit sad and lonely 

duckie: now my baby's gone away... 

duckie: i'm feeling kinda blue 

duckie: don't know just what to do 

duckie: i feel a little sad today. 

chorus of pcs: he's a little bit sad and lonely 

chorus of pcs: now his baby's gone away 

chorus of pcs: he's feeling kinda blue 

chorus of pcs: he don't know just what to do 

chorus of pcs: he's not feeling so good today. 

muffin: a lovely song, duckie. 

girl: and that's the final entry. la dernière entrée. das final entry. and now, guten abend. das scores. the scores. les scores. dei scores. oh! scores. ha! scores! 

girl: yes, monaco is the winner - hall monaco is the linner- oh yes, man, monaco's won de big prize, bwana ... and now, here is chief inspector jean-paul zatapathique with the winning song once again. 

<scene 'bing tiddle tiddle bong' (song)>

voice over: and so, inspector zatapathique, the forensic expert from the monaco murder squad sings his song 'bing tiddle tiddle bong'. 

zatapathique: quoi? quoi? tout le monde, quoi? ... mais, le monde ... d'habitude ... mais ... je pense ... 

zatapathique and singers: bing tiddle tiddle bang 

zatapathique and singers: bing tiddle fiddle bing 

zatapathique and singers: bing fiddle fiddle tiddle tiddle 

zatapathique and singers: bing fiddle tiddle tiddle bong! 

voice over: number thirty-one. the end. 

none: caption: 'the end' 

<scene french subtitled film>

stig: bonjour. 

none: subtitle: 'good morning' 

girl: bonjour. 

stig: ii fair beau ce matin. 

none: subtitle: 'it's a nice day' 

girl: oui, oui. 

none: subtitle: 'yes, yes' 

stig: d'accord... 

none: subtitle: 'hear hear' 

stig: venez-vous ici souvent? 

none: subtitle: 'do you come here often?' 

girl: oui. 

none: subtitle: 'yes' 

stig: ah. bon. bon. 

none: subtitle: 'good, good' 

stig: je vois que vous avez un chou. 

none: subtitle: 'i see that you have a cabbage' 

stig: certainement il fair beau ce matin. 

none: subtitle: 'it certainly is a lovely day all right' 

stig: je suis revolutionnaire. 

none: subtitle: 'i am a revolutionary' 

girl: oh. 

stig: qu'est-ce que vous avez dit? 

none: subtitle: 'what did you say?' 

girl: j'ai dit 'oh'. 

none: subtitle: 'i said "oh"' 

stig: ah. très interessant. 

none: subtitle: 'ah. very interesting' 

phil: brian distel and brianette zatapathique there in an improvised scene from jean kenneth longueur's new movie 'le fromage grand'. brian and brianette symbolize the breakdown in communication in our modern society in this exciting new film and longueur is saying to us, his audience, 'go on, protest, do something about it, assault the manager, demand your money back'. later on in the film, in a brilliantly conceived montage, longueur mercilessly exposes the violence underlying our society when brian and brianerte again meet on yet another rubbish dump. 

stig: bonjour encore. 

none: subtitle: 'hello again' 

stig: je vois que aujourd'jui vous avez une co-laitue. 

none: subtitle: 'i see you've got a webb's wonder today' 

stig: bon. 

none: subtitle: 'good' 

stig: il fair beau encore. 

none: subtitle: 'it's a lovely day again' 

stig: vous pouvez dire ça encore. 

stig: il fait beau bier. ha ha ha. 

none: subtitle: 'it was lovely yesterday. ha ha ha' 

girl: ha ha. 

none: subtitle: 'ha ha. ha ha. ha ha.' 

stig: quel surprise de vous voir encore. 

none: subtitle: 'what a surprise to see you again' 

girl: je t'aime. 

none: subtitle: 'i love you' 

stig: je t'aime. 

<scene scott of the antarctic>

phil: pretty strong meat there from longueur who is saying, of course, that ultimately materialism, in this case the webb's wonder lettuce, must destroy us all. that was for o. simon, k. simon, p. simon and r. sparrow of leicester. later on, we're going to take a look at john wayne's latest movie, 'buckets of blood pouring out of people's heads' but now we look ahead. on tuesday chris conger took a bbc film unit to the location where 20th century vole are shooting their latest epic 'scott of the antarctic'. 

conger: sea, sand and sunshine make paignton the queen of the english riviera. but for the next six months this sleepy devonshire resort will be transformed into the blizzard-swept wastes of the south pole. for today shooting starts on the epic 'scott of the antarctic', produced by gerry schlick. 

schlick: hello. 

conger: gerry, you chose paignton as the location for scott. 

schlick: right, right. 

conger: isn't it a bit of a drawback that there's no snow here? 

schlick: well, we have 28,000 cubic feet of wintrex, which is a new white foam rubber which actually on screen looks more like snow than snow... 

schlick: ... and 1,600 cubic us furlongs of white paint, with a special snow finish. 

conger: and i believe kirk vilb is playing the title role. 

schlick: that is correct. we were very thrilled and honoured when kirk agreed to play the part of lieutenant scott 

schlick: and directing we have a very fine young british director, james mcrettin, who's been collaborating on the screenplay, of course jimmy... 

mcrettin: oh, there you are. hello. hello. no problem. have a drink. have a drink. great. hello. marvellous. marvellous. hello. rewrite. oh this is really great. i mean, it's really saying something, don't you think? 

conger: have you started shooting yet? 

mcrettin: yes, yes. great. perfect. no, no, we haven't started yet. no. but great - great. 

conger: what is the first scene that you shoot this morning? 

mcrettin: great. terrific. oh it's great. no problem. we'll sort it out on the floor. sort it out on the floor. no problem. this film is basically pro-humanity and anti-bad things and it rips aside the hypocritical facade of our society's gin and tonic and leaves a lot of sacred cows rolling around in agony, have a drink, have a drink. 

conger: but which 

conger: scene 

conger: are we shooting first, jimmy? 

mcrettin: yes, great. oh, marvellous. 

mcrettin: i thought we cut that? didn't we cut that? 

schlick: no, we didn't. 

mcrettin: we didn't. oh great. that's even better. i'll put it back in. rewrite. 

mcrettin: this is the scene - outside the tent - it's all bloody marvelous. it makes you want to throw up. 

schlick: now in this scene lieutenant scott returns to camp in the early morning after walking the huskies to have brunch with the rest of his team. 

schlick: oates, played by your very own lovely terence lemming, who is an english cockney officer seconded to the us navy, and bowers played by seymour fortescue, the olympic pole vaulter. 

oates: hi, lieutenant. 

scott: hi, oatesy. sure is a beautiful day already. 

mcrettin: great, great. 

scott: what? what are you saying? 

mcrettin: i was just saying great, great. cue evans. 

schlick: and this is vanilla hoare as miss evans. 

conger: miss evans? 

schlick: right. 

scott: good morning, miss evans. 

evans: oh, i've forgotten my line. 

mcrettin: what's her line? what's her line? 

evans: oh, yeah. 'good morning, captain sc'..; oh, i'm just not really very happy with that line. could i just say 'hi scottie'? 

mcrettin: great. great. rewrite. cue. 

evans: hi scarrie! oh, sorry. hi stocky! oh - i'm sorry again. oh, jim. i'm just unhappy with this line. hey, can i do it all sort of kooky, like this? 

evans: hi scottie! 

mcrettin: great! we'll shoot it. 

scott: are you sure that's right? 

mcrettin: oh, it's great. 

schlick: jim. 

mcrettin: jim! jim! oh, me! 

schlick: jim, i feel we may be running into some problems here in the area of height. 

mcrettin: great! where are they? 

schlick: where are who? 

mcrettin: i don't know. i was getting confused. 

schlick: jim, i feel here, that scott may be too tall in the area of height with reference to vanilla who is too near the ground in the area of being too short at this time. 

mcrettin: great ... oh, i know. i'm going to dig a pit for scott and put a box in vanilla's trench. 

scott: say, why don't i take the boxes off and vanilla get up out of the trench? 

mcrettin: it wouldn't work... it's even better! great. rewrite! 

evans: what was that? 

mcrettin: oh, it's easy. i've worked it out. scott takes his boxes off and you don't stand in the trench. 

evans: i say my lines out of the trench? 

mcrettin: even better. great. 

evans: but i've never acted out of a trench. i might fall over. it's dangerous. 

mcrettin: oh well, could you just try it? 

evans: look, you crumb bum, i'm a star. star, star, star. i don't get a million dollars to act out of a trench. i played miss st john the baptist in a trench, 

evans: i played miss galileo in a groove and i played mrs jesus christ in a geological syncline, so don't... 

mcrettin: great. great everyone. lunch now. lunch. it's all in the can. good morning's work. 

schlick: but you haven't done a shot. 

mcrettin: just keeping morale up. 

schlick: now this afternoon we're going to shoot the scene where scott gets off the boat on to the ice floe and he sees the lion and he fights it and kills it and the blood goes pssssssssshhh in slow motion. 

conger: but there aren't any lions in the antarctic. 

schlick: what? 

conger: there aren't any lions in the antarctic. 

schlick: you're right. there are no lions in the antarctic. that's ridiculous! whoever heard of a lion in the antarctic? right. lose the lion. 

mcrettin: got to keep the lion. it's great! 

schlick: lose the lion. 

mcrettin: great. we're losing the lion. rewrite. lose the lion everyone. that's fantastic. 

scott: what's this about our losing the lion? 

schlick: well, kirk, we thought perhaps we might lose the fight with the lion a little bit, kirk, angel. 

scott: why? 

schlick: well, kirkie, doll, there are no lions in the antarctic, baby. 

scott: i get to fight the lion. 

schlick: it'd be silly. 

scott: listen, i gotta fight the lion. that's what that guy scott's all about. i know. i've studied him already. 

schlick: but why couldn't you fight a penguin? 

mcrettin: great! 

scott: fight a rotten penguin? 

schlick: it needn't be a little penguin. it can be the biggest penguin you've ever seen. an electric penguin, twenty feet high, with long green tentacles that sting people, and you can stab it in the wings and the blood can go spurting psssssshhhh in slow motion. 

scott: the lion is in the contract. 

schlick: he fights the lion. 

mcrettin: even better. great. have a drink. lose the penguin. stand by to shoot. 

schlick: where do they have lions? 

conger: africa. 

schlick: that's it. scott's in africa. as many lions as we need. 

schlick: he's looking for a pole no one else knows about. that ties in with the sand. right. paint the sand yellow again. okay, let's get this show on the road. 'scott of the sahara.' 

<scene scott of the sahara>

none: caption: 'scott of the sahara' 

voice over: booming out of the pages of history comes a story of three men and one woman whose courage shocked a generation. 

voice over: from the same team that brought you ... 

voice over: 'lawrence of glareorgan' ... 'bridge over the river trent' ... 'the mad woman of biggleswade' ... and 'krakatoa, east of leamington' ... comes the story of three people and a woman united by fate who set out in search of the fabled pole of the sahara and found ... themselves. see ... lieutenant scott's death struggle with a crazed desert lion. 

voice over: see ensign oates' frank adult death struggle with the spine-chilling giant electric penguin... 

voice over: ... see miss evans pursued by the man-eating roll-top writing desk. 

announcer: and now for something completely different. 

it's man: it's... 

none: animation: 

<scene fish licence>

praline: excuse me, i would like to buy a fish license, please. 

praline: hello, i would like to buy a fish licence, please. 

man: a what? 

praline: a license for my pet fish, eric. 

man: how did you know my name was eric? 

praline: no no no, my 

praline: fish's 

praline: name is eric, eric the fish. 'e's an 'alibut. 

praline: he is an halibut. 

man: you've got a pet halibut? 

praline: yes. i chose him out of thousands. i didn't like the others, they were all too flat. 

man: you must be a loony. 

praline: i am not a looney! why should i be tied with the epithet looney merely because i have a pet halibut? i've heard tell that sir gerald nabardo has a pet prawn called simon and you wouldn't call him a looney; furthermore, dawn pailthorpe, the lady show-jumper, had a clam, called stafford, after the late chancellor, allan bullock has two pikes, both called chris, and marcel proust had an haddock! so, if you're calling the author of 'a la recherche du temps perdu' a looney, i shall have to ask you to step outside! 

man: all right, all right, all right. you want a licence. 

praline: yes. 

man: for a fish. 

man: you 

man: are 

man: a loony. 

praline: look, it's a bleeding pet, isn't it? i've got a license for me pet dog eric, and i've got a license for me pet cat eric... 

man: you don't need a license for a cat. 

praline: i bleeding well do and i got one. ho, ho, you're not catching me out there. 

man: there's no such thing as a bloody cat license. 

praline: yes there is! 

man: no there isn't! 

praline: is! 

man: isn't! 

praline: what's that then? 

man: this is a dog license with the word 'dog' crossed out and the word 'cat' written in in crayon. 

praline: the man didn't have the proper form. 

man: what man? 

praline: the man from the cat detector van. 

man: loony detector van, you mean. 

praline: it's people like you what cause unrest. 

man: all right, what cat detector van? 

praline: the cat detector van from the ministry of housinge. 

man: housinge? 

praline: it was spelt like that on the van. i'm very observant!. i never seen so many bleeding aerials. the man said that their equipment could pinpoint a purr at four hundred yards...and eric, being such a happy cat, was a piece of cake. 

man: how much did you pay for this? 

praline: sixty quid, and eight guineas for the fruit bat. 

man: what fruit bat? 

praline: eric the fruit-bat. 

man: are all your pets called eric? 

praline: there's nothing so odd about that: kemal ataturk had an entire menagerie, all called abdul! 

man: no he didn't! 

praline: he did, he did, he did, he did and did. there you are. 'kemal ataturk, the man' by e. w. swanton with a foreword by paul anka, page 91, please. 

man: i owe you an apology, sir. 

praline: spoken like a gentleman, sir. now, are you going to give me a fish license? 

man: i promise you that there is no such thing. you don't need one. 

praline: then i would like a statement to that effect signed by the lord mayor. 

man: you're in luck. 

voice over: and now, there is the mayor. surely the third tallest mayor in derby's history. and there are the aldermen magnificently resplendent in their aldermanic hose and just look at the power in those thighs. the new zealanders are going to find it pretty tough going in the set pieces in the second half... so dawn palethorpe with one clear round on sir gerald... and now the mayor has reached the great customer mr eric praline. 

voice over: has finally gone spare and there is the going sparal look on the front of his head. and now the aldermen are finishing their oranges and leaving the post office for the start of the second half. 

<scene derby council v. all blacks rugby match>

commentator: and here come the derby council xv following the all blacks out on to the pitch. there, in the centre of the picture you can see dawn palethorpe on sir gerald - one of the fastest wingers we must have seen in england this season. on the left hand side of the picture the lord mayor has been running such wonderful possession for derby council in the lines out and it's the all blacks to kick off. wilson to kick off. oh, i can see there the chairman of the by-ways and highways committee who's obviously recovered from that very nasty blow he got in that loose ball in the first half. 

commentator: and wilson kicks off and it's the town clerk's taken the ball beautifully there, the all blacks are up on it very fast and the whistle has gone. i'm not quite sure what happened there, i couldn't see, but there's a scrum-down. i think it's an all blacks' ball. they were upon them very fast. obviously they're going to try very hard in this half to wipe out this five-point deficit. derby council eight points to three up and derby council have got the ball against the head. there is the borough surveyor, the scrum-half is out of the ... er, the chairman of the highway and by-way committee who's kicked for touch. the line out - and it's into the line out and the mayor has got the ball again. to the borough surveyor who's left out the medical officer of health. straight along the line to the lady mayoress and the lady mayoress has got to go through. number two has missed her - he's taken to the full back - only the full back to beat and she has scored! the lady mayoress has scored, it's eleven points to three. 

linkman: cliff, this must have been a very disappointing result for the all blacks. 

cliff: well, they've had very bad luck on the tour so far. they missed four very easy kicks against the exeter amateur operatic society, which must have cost them the match and then of course there was that crippling defeat at the hands of the derry and toms soft toy department, so i don't think they can be really fancying their chances against the london pooves on saturday. 

linkman: and what about china? 

cliff: well, whether mao tse tung is alive or not, lin piao has a stranglehold on the central committee which lin shao chi can't break, so it remains to be seen whether chou en lai can really get his finger out and get going in the second half. 

<scene long john silver impersonators v. bournemouth gynaecologist>

linkman: well, thank you cliff. tonight's other outstanding match was the semi-final between the bournemouth gynaecologists and the watford long john silver impersonators. we bring you edited highlights of the match. 

presenter: well, that's about it for tonight ladies and gentlemen, but remember if you've enjoyed watching the show just half as much as we've enjoyed doing it, then we've enjoyed it twice as much as you. ha, ha, ha. 

<scene conquistador coffee campaign>

boss: come in. 

boss: ah, frog. 

frog: s. frog, sir. 

boss: shut up, i want to have a word with you, frog. 

boss: shut up. it's about your advertising campaign for conquistador coffee. now, i've had the managing director of conquistador to see me this morning and he's very unhappy with your campaign. very unhappy. in fact, he's shot himself. 

frog: badly, sir? 

boss: no, extremely well. 

boss: , the effect of which was how disappointed he was with your work and, in particular, why you had changed the name from conquistador instant coffee to conquistador instant leprosy. why, frog? 

boss: shut up. why did you do it? 

frog: it was a joke. 

boss: a joke? 

frog: no, no not a joke, a sales campaign. 

boss: i see, frog. 

boss: shut up. now, let's have a look at the sales chart. 

boss: when you took over this account, frog, conquistador was a brand leader. here you introduced your first campaign, 'conquistador coffee brings a new meaning to the word vomit'. here you made your special introductory offer of a free dead dog with every jar, and this followed your second campaign 'the tingling fresh coffee which brings you exciting new cholera, mange, dropsy, the clap, hard pad and athlete's head. from the house of conquistador'. 

frog: it was a soft-sell, sir 

boss: why, frog? 

boss: shut up! well? 

frog: well, people know the name, sir. 

boss: they certainly do know the name - they burnt the factory down. the owner is hiding in my bathroom 

frog: you're not going to fire me, sir? 

boss: fire you? three men dead, the factory burnt down, the account lost and our firm completely bankrupt, what... what... what ... can you possibly say? what excuse can you possibly make? 

frog: sorry, father. 

boss: oh, yes. oh, incidentally your film's won a prize. 

<scene repeating groove>

announcer: sorry about that. and now for something completely diff... 

announcer: something completely diff... completely diff... completely diff... completely diff... completely different. 

<scene ramsay macdonald striptease>

it's man: it's... 

voice over: 1929. stanley baldwin's conservative government is defeated and ramsay macdonald becomes, for the second time, prime minister of england. 

ramsay macdonald: my, it's hot in here. 

<scene job hunter>

glans: hello, come in. 

glans: ah, hello, hello, how much do you want for that briefcase? 

bee: well, i... 

glans: all right then, the briefcase and the umbrella. a fiver down, must be my final offer. 

bee: well, i don't want to sell them. i've come for a job. 

glans: oh, take a seat, take a seat. 

bee: thank you. 

glans: i see you chose the canvas chair with the aluminium frame. i'll throw that in and a fiver, for the briefcase and the umbrella ... no, make it fair, the briefcase and the umbrella and the two pens in your breast pocket and the chair's yours and a fiver and a pair of ex-german u-boat commander's binoculars. 

bee: really, they are not for sale. 

glans: not for sale, what does that mean? 

bee: i came about the advertisement for the job of assistant editor. 

glans: oh yeah, right. ah, ok, ah. how much experience in journalism? 

bee: five years. 

glans: right, typing speed? 

bee: fifty. 

glans: o levels? 

bee: eight. 

glans: a levels? 

bee: two. 

glans: right... well, i'll give you the job, and the chair, and an all-wool ex-army sleeping bag ... for the briefcase, umbrella, the pens in your breast pocket and your string vest. 

bee: when do i start? 

glans: monday. 

bee: that's marvellous. 

glans: if you throw in the shoes as well. 

glans: hello, er ... miss johnson? could we have two coffees and biscuits please? 

glans: two ex-army greatcoats and the alarm clock and a table lamp, for two coffees and biscuits. 

none: animation: 

glans: two greatcoats, one table lamp and a desert boat. 

glans: done. 

miss johnson: done. 

voice over: so miss johnson returned to her typing and dreamed her little dreamy dreams, unaware as she was of the cruel trick fate had in store for her. for miss johnson was about to fall victim of the dreaded international chinese communist conspiracy. 

voice over: just as they are ready to do anytime free men anywhere waver in their defence of democracy. 

uncle sam: yes, once again american defence proves its effectiveness against international communism. using this diagram of a tooth to represent any small country, we can see how international communism works by eroding away form the inside 

uncle sam: in dentistry, this is known as domino theory. but with american defence the decay is stopped before it starts and that's why nine out of ten small countries choose american defense ... 

different voice over: ... or crelm toothpaste with the miracle ingredient, fraudulin! the white car represents crelm toothpaste with the miracle ingredient, fraudulin. 

different voice over: the non-white car is out, and the crelm toothpaste goes on to win with 100% protection! yes, do like all smart motorists. choose crelm toothpaste. 

'shrill' man: or shrill petrol with the new addititve glc 9424075. after 6 p.m., 9424047. using this white card 

'shrill' man: aaaagh! 

<scene agatha christie sketch (railway timetables)>

jasmina: anyway, john, you can catch the 11.30 from hornchurch and be in basingstoke by one o'clock, oh, and there's a buffet car and... 

jasmina: oh! daddy! 

john: my hat! sir horace! 

jasmina: has he been... 

john: yes - after breakfast. but that doesn't matter now... he's dead. 

jasmina: oh! poor daddy... 

john: looks like i shan't be catching the 11.30 now. 

jasmina: oh no, john, you mustn't miss your train. 

john: how could i think of catching a train when i should be here helping you? 

jasmina: oh, john, thank you... anyway you could always catch the 9.30 tomorrow - it goes via caterham and chipstead. 

john: or the 9.45's even better. 

jasmina: oh, but you'd have to change at lambs green. 

john: yes, but there's only a seven-minute wait now. 

jasmina: oh, yes, of course, i'd forgotten it was friday. oh, who could have done this? 

lady partridge: oh, do hurry sir horace, your train leaves in twenty-eight minutes, and if you miss the 10.15 you won't catch the 3.45 which means ... oh! 

john: i'm afraid sir horace won't be catching the 10.15, lady partridge. 

lady partridge: has he been... ? 

jasmina: yes - after breakfast. 

john: lady partridge, i'm afraid you can cancel his seat reservation. 

lady partridge: oh, and it was back to the engine - fourth coach along so that he could see the gradient signs outside swanborough. 

john: not any more lady partridge... the line's been closed. 

lady partridge: closed! not swanborough! 

john: i'm afraid so. 

inspector: all right, nobody move. i'm inspector davis of scotland yard. 

john: my word, you were here quickly, inspector. 

inspector: yeah, i got the 8.55 pullman express from king's cross and missed that bit around hornchurch. 

lady partridge: it's a very good train. 

all: excellent, very good, delightful. 

tony: hello everyone. 

all: tony! 

tony: where's daddy? 

tony: oh golly! has he been... ? 

john and jasmina: yes, after breakfast. 

tony: then ... he won't be needing his reservation on the 10.15. 

john: exactly. 

tony: and i suppose as his eldest son it must go to me. 

inspector: just a minute, tony. there's a small matter of... murder. 

tony: oh, but surely he simply shot himself and then hid the gun. 

lady partridge: how could anyone shoot himself and then hide the gun without first cancelling his reservation. 

tony: ha, ha! well, i must dash or i'll be late for the 10.15. 

inspector: i suggest you murdered your father for his seat reservation. 

tony: i may have had the motive, inspector, but i could not have done it, for i have only just arrived from gillingham on the 8.13 and here's my restaurant car ticket to prove it. 

jasmina: the 8.13 from gillingham doesn't have a restaurant car. 

john: it's a standing buffet only. 

tony: oh, er... did i say the 8.13, i meant the 7.58 stopping train. 

lady partridge: but the 7.58 stopping train arrived at swindon at 8.19 owing to annual point maintenance at wisborough junction. 

john: so how did you make the connection with the 8.13 which left six minutes earlier? 

tony: oh, er, simple! i caught the 7.16 football special arriving at swindon at 8.09. 

jasmina: but the 7.16 football special only stops at swindon on alternate saturdays. 

lady partridge: yes, surely you mean the holidaymaker special. 

tony: oh, yes! how daft of me. of course, i came on the holidaymaker special calling at bedford, colmworth, fen dinon, sutton, wallington and gillingham. 

inspector: that's sundays only! 

tony: damn. all right, i confess i did it. i killed him for his reservation, but you won't take me alive! i'm going to throw myself under the 10.12 from reading. 

john: don't be a fool, tony, don't do it, the 10.12 has the new narrow traction bogies, you wouldn't stand a chance. 

tony: exactly. 

shunt: chuff, chuff, chuffwoooooch, woooooch! sssssssss, sssssssss! diddledum, diddledum, diddlealum. toot, toot. the train now standing at platform eight, tch, tch, tch, diddledum, diddledum. chuffff chuffffitff eeeeeeeeeaaaaaaaaa vooooommmmm. 

art critic: some people have made the mistake of seeing shunt's work as a load of rubbish about railway timetables, but clever people like me, who talk loudly in restaurants, see this as a deliberate ambiguity, a plea for understanding in a mechanized world. the points are frozen, the beast is dead. what is the difference? what indeed is the point? the point is frozen, the beast is late out of paddington. the point is taken. if la fontaine's elk would spurn tom jones the engine must be our head, the dining car our oesophagus, the guard's van our left lung, the cattle truck our shins, the first-class compartment the piece of skin at the nape of the neck and the level crossing an electric elk called simon. the clarity is devastating. but where is the ambiguity? it's over there in a box. shunt is saying the 8.15 from gillingham when in reality he means the 8.13 from gillingham. the train is the same only the time is altered. ecce homo, ergo elk. la fontaine knew his sister and knew her bloody well. the point is taken, the beast is moulting, the fluff gets up your nose. the illusion is complete; it is reality, the reality is illusion and the ambiguity is the only truth. but is the truth, as hitchcock observes, in the box? no there isn't room, the ambiguity has put on weight. the point is taken, the elk is dead, the beast stops at swindon, chabrol stops at nothing, i'm having treatment and la fontaine can get knotted. 

man: gavin millar... 

another man: ...rrrrrrr... 

man: ... was not talking to neville shunt. from the world of the theatre we turn to the world of dental hygiene. no, no, no, no. from the world of the theatre we move to the silver screen. we honour one of the silver screen's outstanding writer-dentists... writer-directors, martin curry who is visiting london to have a tooth out, for the pre-molar, er... premiere of his filling, film next toothday... tuesday, at the dental theatre... film theatre. martin curry talking to matthew palate... padget. 

<scene film director (teeth)>

padget: martin curry, welcome. one of the big teeth... big points that the american critics made about your latest film, 'the twelve caesars', was that it was on so all-embracing a topic. what made you undertake so enormous a tusk... task? 

curry: well i've always been interested in imperial rome from julius caesar right through to vethpathian. 

padget: who? 

curry: vethpathian. 

padget: ah! vespasian. 

curry: yes. 

padget: when i saw your film it did seem to me that you had taken a rather, umm, subjective approach to it. 

curry: i'm sorry? 

padget: well, i mean all your main characters had these enormous ... well not enormous, these very big ... well let's have a look at a clip in which julius incisor .... caesar talks to his generals during the battle against caractacus. 

curry: i don't see that at all. 

labienus: shall i order the cavalry that they may hide themselves in the wood, o caesar? 

julius: today is about to be a triumph for our native country. 

padget: martin curry, why do all your characters have these very big er ... very big um ... teeth? 

curry: what do you mean? 

padget: well, i mean, er... and even in your biblical epic, 'the son of man', john the baptist had the most enormous ... dental appendages ... and of course ... himself had the most monumental ivories. 

curry: no, i'm afraid i don't see that at all. 

curry: could i have a straw? 

padget: oh, a straw, yes, yes. well while we're doing that perhaps we could take another look at an earlier film, 'trafalgar'. 

nelson: cover my coat, mr bush, the men must not know of this till victory is ours. 

toad: the surgeon's coming, sir. 

nelson: no, tell the surgeon to attend the men that can be saved. he can do little for me, i fear. 

toad: aye, aye, sir. 

nelson: hardy! hardy! 

hardy: sir? 

nelson: hardy...kiss... er ... put your hand on my thigh. 

padget: martin curry, thank you. well. we asked the first-night audience what they thought of that film. 

<scene city gents vox pops>

man with enormous ears: it wasn't true to life. 

man with enormous teeth: yes it was. 

man with enormous nose: no it wasn't. 

madly dressed man: i thought it was totally bizarre. 

first city gent: well i've been in the city for over forty years and i think the importance of looking after poor people cannot be understressed. 

second city gent: well i've been in the city for twenty years and i must admit - i'm lost. 

an old gramophone: well, i've been in the city all my life and i'm as alert and active as i've ever been. 

third city gent: well i've been in the city since i was two and i certainly wouldn't say that i was stuck in a rut... stuck in a rut ... stuck in a rut... stuck in a rut... 

woman: oh dear, mr bulstrode's stuck again. 

third city gent: i certainly wouldn't say that i was stuck in a rut. 

fourth city gent: well l've been in the city for thirty years and i've never once regretted being a nasty, greedy, cold hearted, avaricious, money-grubber ... conservative. 

fifth city gent: well i've been in the city for twenty-seven years and i would like to see the reintroduction of flogging. every thursday, round at my place. 

man: well i've been in the sea for thirty-three years and i've never regretted it. 

man: i think it must be a naturalist outing. 

woman: i think it must be one of them crackpot religions. 

<scene 'crackpot religions ltd'>

crackpot: this is an example of the sort of abuse we get all the time from ignorant people. i inherited this religion from my father, an ex-used-car salesman and part-time window-box, and i am very proud to be in charge of the first religion with free gifts. you get this luxury tea-trolley with every new enrollment. 

crackpot: in addition to this you can win a three-piece lounge suite, this luxury caravan, a weekend for two with peter bonetti and tonights star prize, the entire norwich city council. 

crackpot: and remember with only eight scoring draws you can win a bishopric in a see of your own choice. you see we have a much more modern approach to religion. 

crackpot: blessed is arthur crackpot and all his subsidiaries ltd. you see, in our church we have a lot more fun. 

priest: oh, mrs collins, you did say you were nervous, didn't you? you have eyes on the coffee machine? 

mrs collins: i don't mind, i don't mind - it's just nice to be here, reverend. 

priest: oh, mrs collins, you had eyes on the coffee machine. well you have won tonight's star prize: the entire norwich city council. 

mrs collins: i've got one already. 

crackpot: a lot of religions - no names no pack drill - do go for the poorer type of person - face it, there's more of 'em - poor people, thieves, villains, poor people without no money at all - well we don't have none of that. rich people and crumpet over sixteen can enter free: upper middle class quite welcome; lower middle class not under five grand a year. lower class - i can't touch it. there's no return on it, you see. 

interviewer: do you have any difficulty converting people? 

crackpot: oh no, well we have ways of making them join. 

crackpot's voice: norman there does a lot of converting: a lot of protection, that sort of thing. and there's his mate, bruce beer. 

crackpot's voice: brucie has personally converted ninety-two people twenty-five inside the distance. then again we're not afraid to use more modern methods. 

voice over: sarah, today's diocesan lovely is enough to make any chap go down on his knees. this twenty-three-year-old bishop hails appropriately enough from bishop's stortford and lists her hobbies as swimming, riding, and film producers. what a gas! bet she's no novice when it comes to converting all in her see. 

lennon: i'm starting a war for peace. 

shabby: cor blimey. i'm raising polecats for peace. 

nudge: peace? i like a peace. know what i mean? know what i mean? say no more. nudge, nudge. 

bishop: our religion is the first church to cater for the naughty type of person. if you'd like a bit of 'love-your-neighbour' - and who doesn't now and again - then see vera and ciceley during the hymns. 

bill: in our church we try to help people to help themselves - to cars, washing machines, lead piping, no questions asked. we are the only church, apart from the baptists, to do respray jobs. 

ali byan: we at the church of the divine loony believe in the power of prayer to turn the head purple ha, ha, ha. 

priest: i would like to come in here for a moment if i may, and disassociate our church from these frivolous and offensive religions. we are primarily concerned with what is best... 

priest: ... for the human soul. 

none: animation: 

voice over: in this picture there are forty people. none of them can be seen. in this film we hope to show how not to be seen. 

none: caption: 'hm government, public service film no. 42 para 6. 'how not to be seen'' 

voice over: this is mr e. r. bradshaw, of napier court, black lion road, se5. he cannot be seen. now i'm going to ask him to stand up. mr bradshaw will you stand up please? 

voice over: this demonstrates the value of not being seen. 

voice over: in this picture we canot see mrs. b.j. smegma of 13, the cresent, belmont. mrs smegma will you stand up please. 

voice over: this is mr nesbitt of harlow new town. mr nesbit would you stand up please. 

voice over: yes it was the middle one. 

voice over: mr ken andrews, of leighton road, slough, has concealed himself extremely well. he could be almost anywhere. he could be behind the wall, inside the water barrel, beneath a pile of leaves, up in the tree, squatting down behind the car, concealed in a hollow, or crouched behind any one of a hundred bushes. however we happen to know he's in the water barrel. 

voice over: mr. and mrs. watson of 'ivy cottage', worplesdon road, hull, chose a very cunning way of not being seen. when we called at their house, we found that they had gone away on two weeks holiday. they had not left any forwading address, and they had bolted and barred the house to prevent us getting in. however a neighbour told us where there were. 

voice over: and here is the neighbour who told us where they were 

<scene crossing the atlantic on a tricycle>

<scene interview in filing cabinet>

presenter: ah, well i'm afraid we have to stop the film there, as some of the scenes which followed were of a violent nature which might have proved distressing to some of our viewers. though not to me, i can tell you. 

presenter: first of all, congratulations on the victory. 

mr grayson: thank you, david. 

presenter: it should send you back to botty with a big lead. 

mr grayson: oh yes, well we're fairly confident, david. 

presenter: well at the moment, ludovic, you're crouching down inside a filing cabinet. 

mr grayson: yes that's right, david, i'm trying not to be seen. 

presenter: i see. is this through fear? 

mr grayson: oh no, no, it's common sense really. if they can't see you, they can't get you. 

presenter: ha, ha, ha, but of course they can still hear you. 

presenter: ludovic grayson, thank you very much for coming on the program tonight. and we end the show with music. and here with their very latest recording 'yummy, yummy, yummy, i've got love in my tummy' jackie charlton and the tonettes. 

<scene 'yummy yummy'>

voice over: for those of you who may have just missed 'monty python's flying circus', here it is again. 

<scene 'the black eagle'>

announcer: and now for something completely different... 

it's man: it's... 

<scene dirty hungarian phrasebook>

fireman: thank you very much for the change, mr tobacconist. 

fireman: was that all right? 

everybody: sssh! 

hungarian: i will not buy this record, it is scratched. 

tobacconist: sorry? 

tobacconist: no, no, no.this ... tobacconist's. 

hungarian: ah! i will not buy this tobacconist's, it is scratched. 

tobacconist: no, no, no ...tobacco...er, cigarettes? 

hungarian: yes, cigarettes. my hovercraft is full of eels. 

tobacconist: what? 

hungarian: my hovercraft is full of eels. 

tobacconist: matches, matches? 

hungarian: yah, yah. 

hungarian: er, do you want ... do you want to come back to my place, bouncy bouncy? 

tobacconist: i don't think you're using that right. 

hungarian: you great pouf. 

tobacconist: that'll be six and six, please. 

hungarian: if i said you had a beautiful body, would you hold it against me? i am no longer infected. 

tobacconist: costs six and six ... here we are ... yandelvayasna grldenwi stravenka. 

policeman: what's going on here then? 

hungarian: you have beautiful thighs. 

policeman: what? 

tobacconist: he hit me. 

hungarian: drop your panties, sir william, i cannot wait till lunchtime. 

policeman: right! 

hungarian: my nipples explode with delight. 

<scene court (phrasebook)>

clerk: call alexander yahlt 

voices: call alexander yahlt. call alexander yahlt. call alexander yahlt. 

magistrate: oh, shut up. 

clerk: you are alexander yahlt? 

yahlt: oh i am. 

clerk: skip the impersonations. you are alexander yahlt? 

yahlt: i am. 

clerk: you are hereby charged that on the 28th day of may 1970, you did wilfully, unlawfully, and with malice aforethought publish an alleged english-hungarian phrasebook with intent to cause a breach of the peace. how do you plead? 

yahlt: not guilty. 

clerk: you live at 46, horton terrace? 

yahlt: i do live at 46, horton terrace. 

clerk: you are the director of a publishing company? 

yahlt: i am the director of a publishing company. 

clerk: your company publishes phrasebooks? 

yahlt: my company does publish phrasebooks. 

clerk: you did say 46, horton terrace, didn't you? 

yahlt: yes. 

clerk: ha, ha, ha, i got him. 

magistrate: get on with it! get on with it! 

clerk: yes, m'lud, on the 28th of may, you published this phrasebook. 

yahlt: i did. 

clerk: i quote an example. the hungarian phrase meaning 'can you direct me to the station?' is translated by the english phrase, 'please fondle my bum'. 

yahlt: i wish to plead incompetence. 

policeman: please may i ask for an adjournment, m'lud? 

magistrate: an adjournment? certainly not. 

magistrate: why on earth didn't you say why you wanted an adjourment? 

policeman: i didn't know an acceptable legal phrase, m'lud. 

magistrate: if there's any more stock film of women applauding, i'll clear the court. 

clerk: call abigail tesler 

defence: m'lud - this is abigail tesler. 

magistrate: is it? 

defence: yes, m'lud. twenty-three-year-old abigail hails from down under, where they're upside down about her. those aussies certainly know a thing or two when it comes to beach belles. bet some life-saver wouldn't mind giving her the kiss of life. so watch out for sharks, abigail! 

voice over: all will be revealed soon m'lud, quipped tall forty-two-year-old nelson bedowes. cutie qc nelson's keen on negligence and grievous bodily harm at gray's inn. and with cases like he's won we bet gray's in when nelson's around. 

none: animation: 

voice over: well get on with it, admitted seventy-eight-year-old genial jurisprude maltravers seen here at london airport, on his way to judge for britain at the famous international court in the hague ... 

voice: get off! 

<scene communist quiz>

none: caption: 'world forum' 

presenter: good evening. tonight is indeed a unique occasion in the history of television. we are very privileged, and deeply honoured to have with us in the studio, karl marx, founder of modern socialism, and author of the 'communist manifesto'. 

presenter: yes, mao tse-tung? 

mao tse-tung: 'sing little birdie'? 

presenter: yes it was indeed. well challenged. 

presenter: the development of the industrial proletariat is conditioned by what other development? 

karl: the development of the industrial bourgeoisie. 

presenter: yes, yes, it is indeed. you're on your way to the lounge suite, karl. question number two. the struggle of class against class is a what struggle? a what struggle? 

karl: a political struggle. 

presenter: yes, yes! one final question karl and the beautiful lounge suite will be yours... are you going to have a go? 

presenter: you're a brave man. karl marx, your final question, who won the cup final in 1949? 

karl: the workers' control of the means of production? the struggle of the urban proletariat? 

presenter: no. it was in fact, wolverhampton wanderers who beat leicester 3-1. 

voice over: 'in world forum today: karl marx, che guevara, lenin and mao tse-tung. next week, four leading heads of state of the afro-asian nations against bristol rovers at molineux' 

<scene 'ypres 1914' - abandoned>

none: animation: 

voice over: 'in 1914, the balance of power lay in ruins. europe was plunged into bloody conflict. nation fought nation. but no nation fought nation morely than the english hip hip hoorary! nice, nice yah boo. phillips is a german and he have my pen' 

different voice over: 'start again' 

voice over: 'in 1914, the balance of power lay in ruins...' 

sergeant: jenkins? 

jenkins: yes, sir. 

sergeant: what are you going to do when you get back to blighty? 

jenkins: i dunno, sarge... i expect i'll be looking after me mum. she'll be getting on a bit now. 

sergeant: got a family of your own 'ave you? 

jenkins: no, she's ... she's all i got left now. my wife, doreen ... she ... i got a letter. 

sergeant: you don't have to tell me, son. 

jenkins: no, sarge, i'd like to tell you, see this place.... 

floor manager: hold it. hold it. look, loves ... can anyone not involved in this scene, please leave the set. 

floor manager: sorry loves. sorry. we'll have to take it again, from the top. all fight. ok... cue! 

floor manager: hold it. hold it. now, who changed the caption? can whoever changed the caption put the right one back immediately please. 

none: caption: 'ypres 1914' 

floor manager: right. all right, we'll take it again from the top. cue. 

floor manager: sorry, camera four. 

<scene art gallery strike>

first critic: aren't they marvelous? the strength and boldness... life and power in those colours. 

second critic: this must be titian's masterpiece. 

first critic: oh indeed - if only for the composition alone. the strength of those foreground figures ... the firmness of the line... 

second critic: yes, the confidence of the master at the height of his powers. 

cherub: yes? 

bumpkin: hello sonny, your dad in? 

cherub: yes. 

bumpkin: could i speak to him please? it's the man from 'the hay wain'. 

cherub: who? 

bumpkin: the man from 'the hay wain' by constable. 

cherub: dad... it's the man from 'the hay wain' by constable to see you. 

solomon: coming. 

solomon: hello? how are you? come on in. 

bumpkin: no, no can't stop, just passing by, actually. 

solomon: oh, where are you now? 

bumpkin: well may you ask. we just been moved in next to a room full of brueghels ... terrible bloody din. skating all hours of the night. anyway, i just dropped in to tell you there's been a walk-out in the impressionists. 

solomon: walk-out, eh? 

bumpkin: yeah. it started with the 'déjeuner sur l'herbe' lot, evidently they were moved away from above the radiator or something. anyway, the impressionists are all out. gainsborough's blue boy's brought out the eighteenth-century english portraits, the flemish school's solid, and the german woodcuts are at a meeting now. 

solomon: right. then i'll get the renaissance school out. 

bumpkin: ok, meeting 4.30 - 'bridge at arles'. 

solomon: ok, cheerio - good luck, son. 

bumpkin: ok. 

solomon: right - everybody out. 

radio: here is the news... 

auctioneer: what am i bid for vermeer's 'lady who used to be at a window'? do i hear two bob? 

voice: two bob! 

auctioneer: gone. now what am i bid for another great bargain? edward landseer's 'nothing at bay'. 

venus: all we bloody want is a little bit of bloody consultation. 

radio: at a mass meeting at brentford football ground, other works of art voted to come out in support of the paintings. 

radio: meanwhile, at television centre work began again on a sketch about ypres. a spokesman for the sketch said: he fully expected it to be more sensible this time. 

<scene 'ypres 1914'>

sergeant: jenkins. 

jenkins: yes, sarge? 

sergeant: what are you going to do when you get back to blighty? 

jenkins: i dunno, sarge. i expect i'll look after my mum. she'll be getting on a bit now. 

sergeant: got a family of your own, have you? 

jenkins: no - she's all i got left now. my wife, doreen ... she... i got a letter. 

sergeant: you don't have to tell me, son. 

jenkins: no, sarge, i'd like to tell you. you see, this bloke from up the street... 

major: ok, chaps, at ease. i've just been up the line... 

sergeant: can we get through, sir? 

major: no, i'm afraid we'll have to make a break for it at nightfall. 

sergeant: right, sir. we're all with yer. 

major: yes i know, that's just the problem, sergeant. how many are there of us? 

sergeant: well there's you, me, jenkins, padre, kipper, there's five, sir. 

major: and only rations for... 

sergeant: four, sir. 

major: precisely. i'm afraid one of us will have to take the 'other' way out. 

padre: i'm a gonner, major. leave me, i'm ... i'm not a complete man anymore. 

major: you've lost both your arms as well. 

padre: yes. damn silly really. 

major: no, no, we'll draw for it. that's the way we do things in the army. sergeant, the straws! 

major: right now, the man who gets the shortest straw knows what to do 

sergeant: looks like you, sir. 

major: is it? what did we say, the longest straw was it? 

sergeant: no, shortest, sir. 

major: well we'd better do it again, there's obviously been a bit of a muddle. 

major: no, this is not working out. it's not working out. what shall we do? 

jenkins: how about one potato, two potato, sir? 

major: don't be childish, jenkins. no, i think, i think fisties would be best. ok, so hands behind backs. after three, ok, one, two, three. 

major: and scissors. now. scissors cut everything, don't they? 

sergeant: not stone, sir. 

major: they're very good scissors 

major: padre hasn't been! 

sergeant: no arms, sir. 

major: oh, i'm terribly sorry, i'm afraid i didn't... tell you what. all those people who don't want to stay here and shoot themselves raise their arms. 

padre: stop it! stop it! stop this ... this hideous façade. 

sergeant: easy, padre! 

padre: no, no, i must speak. when i, when i came to this war, i had two arms, two good arms, but when the time came to... to lose one, i .. i gave it gladly, i smiled as they cut if off, 

<scene hospital for over-actors>

specialist: all our patients here are suffering from severe over-acting. 

specialist: this is the richard iii ward. 

richard iii: a horse. a horse. my kingdom for a horse. 

specialist: most of these cases are pretty unpleasant. nurse... 

specialist: but the treatment does work with some people. this chap came to us straight from the chichester festival; we operated just in time, and now he's almost normal. 

second richard: a horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse. 

specialist: but in here we have some very nasty cases indeed. 

none: animation: 

<scene gumby flower arranging>

none: superimposed caption: 'flower arrangment' 

gumby: good evening. first take a bunch of flowers. 

gumby: get in! get in! get in! 

<scene spam>

mr bun: morning 

waitress: morning 

mr bun: what have you got, then? 

waitress: well, there's egg and bacon; egg sausage and bacon; egg and spam; egg, bacon and spam; egg, bacon, sausage and spam; spam, bacon, sausage and spam; spam, egg, spam, spam, bacon and spam; spam, spam, spam, egg and spam; spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, baked beans, spam, spam, spam and spam; or lobster thermidor aux crevettes with a mornay sauce garnished with truffle pâté, brandy and with a fried egg on top and spam. 

mrs bun: have you got anything without spam in it? 

waitress: well, there's spam egg sausage and spam, that's not got much spam in it. 

mrs bun: i don't want any spam! 

mr bun: why can't she have egg, bacon, spam and sausage? 

mrs bun: that's got spam in it! 

mr bun: not as much as spam, egg, sausage and spam. 

mrs bun: look, could i have egg, bacon, spam and sausage without the spam. 

waitress: uuuuuuggggh! 

mrs bun: what d'you mean uuugggh! i don't like spam 

waitress: shut up. shut up! shut up! you can't have egg, bacon, spam and sausage without the spam. 

mrs bun: why not! 

waitress: no, it wouldn't be egg, bacon, spam and sausage, would it. 

mrs bun: i don't like spam! 

mr bun: don't make a fuss, dear. i'll have your spam. i love it. i'm having spam, spam, spam, spam, spam ... 

mr bun: ... baked beans, spam, spam and spam. 

waitress: baked beans are off. 

mr bun: well can i have spam instead? 

waitress: you mean spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam, spam? 

mr bun: yes. 

waitress: arrggh! 

vikings: .. . lovely spam, wonderful, spam. 

waitress: shut up! shut up! 

hungarian: great boobies, honeybun, my lower intestine is full of spam, egg, spam, bacon, spam, tomato, spam ... 

waitress: shut up 

hungarian: my nipples explode... 

historian: another great viking victory was at the green midget cafe at bromley. once again the viking strategy was the same. they sailed from these fiords here, 

historian: assembled at trondheim and waited for the strong north-easterly winds to blow their oaken galleys to england whence they sailed on may 23rd. once in bromley they assembled in the green midget cafe and spam selecting a spam particular spam item from the spam menu would spam, spam, spam, spam, spam ... 

voice over: haagbard etheldronga and his viking hordes are currently appearing in 'grin and pillage it' at the jodrell theatre, colwyn bay. 'the dirty hungarian phrase book' is available from her majesty's stationery office, price - a kiss on the bum. 

<scene >

announcer: ladies and gentlemen, i am not simply going to say 'and now for something completely different' this week, as i do not think it fit. this is a particularly auspicious occasion for us this evening, as we have been told that her majesty the queen will be watching part of the show tonight. we don't know exactly when her majesty will be tuning in. we understand that at the moment she is watching 'the virginian', but we have been promised that we will be informed the moment that she changes channel. her majesty would like everyone to behave quite normally but her equerry has asked me to request all of you at home to stand when the great moment arrives, although we here in the studio will be carrying on with our humorous vignettes and spoofs in the ordinary way. thank you. and now without any more ado and completely as normal, here are the opening titles. 

<scene coal mine (historical argument)>

none: caption: 'a coal mine in llanddarog carmarthen' 

voice over: the coal miners of wales have long been famed for their tough rugged life hewing the black gold from the uncompromising hell of one mile under. this is 

voice over: the story of such men, battling gallantly against floods, roof falls, the english criminal law, the hidden killer carbon monoxide and the ever-present threat of pneumoconiosis which is... a disease miners get. 

first miner: don't you talk to me like that, you lying bastard. 

second miner: you bleeding pig. you're not fit to be down a mine. 

first miner: typical bleeding rhondda, isn't it. you think you're so bloody clever. 

foreman: you bloody fighting again. break it up or i'll put this pick through your head. now what's it all about? 

first miner: he started it. 

second miner: oh, you bleeding pig, you started it. 

foreman: i don't care who bloody started it. what's it about? 

second miner: well ... he said the bloody treaty of utrecht was 1713. 

first miner: so it bloody is. 

second miner: no it bloody isn't. it wasn't ratified 'til february 1714. 

first miner: he's bluffing. you're mind's gone, jenkins. you're rubbish. 

foreman: he's right, jenkins. it was ratified september 1713. the whole bloody pit knows that. look in trevelyan, page 468. 

third miner: he's thinking of the treaty of bloody westphalia. 

second miner: are you saying i don't know the difference between the war of the bloody spanish succession and the thirty bloody years war? 

third miner: you don't know the difference between the battle of borodino and a tiger's bum. 

foreman: break it up, break it up. 

foreman: i'm sick of all this bloody fighting. if it's not the bloody treaty of utrecht it's the bloody binomial theorem. this isn't the senior common room at all souls, it's the bloody coal face. 

fourth miner: hey, gaffer, can you settle something? morgan here says you find the abacus between the triglyphs in the frieze section of the entablature of classical greek doric temples. 

foreman: you bloody fool, morgan, that's the metope. the abacus is between the architrave and the aechinus in the capital. 

morgan: you stinking liar. 

foreman: oh, most magnificent and merciful majesty, master of the universe, protector of the meek, whose nose we are not worthy to pick and whose very feces are an untrammelled delight, and whose peacocks keep us awake all hours of the night with their noisy lovemaking, we beseech thee, tell thy humble servants the name of the section between the triglyphs in the frieze section of a classical doric entablature. 

management man: no idea. sorry. 

foreman: right. everybody out. 

newsreader: still no settlement in the coal mine dispute at llanddarog. miners refused to return to work until the management define a metope. meanwhile, at dagenham the unofficial strike committee at fords have increased their demands to thirteen reasons why henry iii was a bad king. and finally, in the disgusting objects international at wembley tonight, england beat spain by a plate of braised pus to a putrid heron. and now, the toad elevating moment. 

none: caption: 'the toad elevating moment' 

<scene the man who says things in a very roundabout way>

interviewer: good evening. well, we have in the studio tonight a man who says things in a very roundabout way. isn't that so, mr pudifoot. 

mr pudifoot: yes. 

interviewer: have you always said things in a very roundabout way? 

interviewer: well, i can't help noticing that, for someone who claims to say things in a very roundabout way, your last two answers have very little of the discursive quality about them. 

mr pudifoot: oh, well, i'm not very talkative today. it's a form of defensive response to intensive interrogative stimuli. i used to get it badly when i was a boy ... well, i say very badly, in fact, do you remember when there was that fashion for, you know, little poodles with small coats... 

interviewer: ah, now you're beginning to talk in a roundabout way. 

mr pudifoot: oh, i'm sorry. 

interviewer: no, no, no, no. please do carry on ... because that is in fact why we wanted you on the show. 

mr pudifoot: i thought it was because you were interested in me as a human being. 

<scene the man who speaks only the ends of words>

interviewer: well... lets move on to our guest who not only lives in essex but also speaks only the ends of words. mr ohn ith. mr ith, good evening. 

mr ith: ... ood ... ing. 

interviewer: nice to have you on the show. 

mr ith: ... ice ... o ... e ... ere. 

interviewer: mr ith, don't you find it very difficult to make yourself understood? 

mr ith: yes, it is extremely difficult. 

interviewer: just a minute, you're a fraud 

mr ith: oh no. i can speak the third and fourth sentences perfectly normally. 

interviewer: oh i see. so your next sentence will be only the ends of words again? 

mr ith: t's... ight. 

<scene the man who speaks only the beginnings of words>

interviewer: well, let's move on to our next guest who speaks only the beginnings of words, mr j ... sm... mr sm... good evening. 

mr sm: g... e... 

interviewer: well, have you two met before? 

mr sm: n... 

mr ith: ... o 

<scene the man who speaks only the middles of words>

interviewer: well, this is really a fascinating occasion because we have in the studio mr ... oh ... i ... who speaks only the middles of words. good evening. 

scot: .... oo ...... ni... 

interviewer: um, where do you come from? 

scot: . .. u... i... a... 

interviewer: dunfermline in scotland. well let me introduce you, mr ohn ith... 

mr ith: ... ood ... ing. 

scot: ... oo ...... ni... 

interviewer: j... sm... 

mr sm: g... eve... 

interviewer: yes, well, ha, ha, just a moment. perhaps you would all like to say good evening together. 

mr sm: g... 

scot: . .. oo... 

mr ith: ... d 

mr sm: eve... 

scot: ... ni... 

mr ith: ... ing. 

<scene commercials>

none: animation: 

adman: this table has been treated with ordinary soap powder, but these have been treated with new fibro-val. 

adman: the table is broken and smashed, but the sheets, with fibro-val, are sparkling clean and white. 

man's voice: i love the surgical garment. enjoy the delights of the victor mature abdominal corset. sail down the nile on the bleed-it kosher truss. 

man's voice: and don't forget the hercules hold-'em-in, the all.purpose concrete truss for the man with the family hernia. 

<scene how to feed a goldfish>

adman: well last week on fish club we learnt how to sex a pike ... and this week we're going to learn how to feed a goldfish. now contrary to what most people think the goldfish has a ravenous appetite. if it doesn't get enough protein it gets very thin and its bones begin to stick out and its fins start to fall off. so once a week give your goldfish a really good meal. here's one specially recommended by the board of irresponsible people. first, some cold consommé or a gazpacho 

adman: , then some sausages with spring greens, sautée potatoes and bread and gravy. 

adman: ... treacle tart ... chocolate cake and ... 

voice over: shut up! ... they are quite happy with breadcrumbs, ant's eggs and the occasional pheasant ...' 

voice over: who wrote that? 

<scene the man who collects birdwatcher's eggs>

waiter: i hope you're enjoying the show. 

voice over: herbert mental collects birdwatchers' eggs. at his home in surrey he has a collection of over four hundred of them. 

herbert: 'ere now. this is a very interesting one. this is from a mr p. f. bradshaw. he is usually found in surrey hedgerows, but i found this one in the gents at st pancras, uneaten. 

herbert: nice little chaps. but the hobby i enjoyed most was racing pigeon fanciers. 

<scene insurance sketch>

none: extremely animated caption: 'monty python proudly presents the insurance sketch' 

martin: good morning. i've been in touch with you about the, er, life insurance... 

feldman: ah yes, did you bring the um ... the specimen of your um ... and so on, and so on? 

martin: yes i did. it's in the car. there's rather a lot. 

feldman: good, good. 

martin: do you really need twelve gallons? 

feldman: no, no, not really. 

martin: do you test it? 

feldman: no. 

martin: well, why do you want it? 

feldman: well, we do it to make sure that you're serious about wanting insurance, i mean, if you're not, you won't spend a couple of months filling up that enormous churn with mmm, so on and so on... 

martin: shall i bring it in? 

feldman: good lord no. throw it away. 

martin: throw it away? i was months filling that thing up. 

voice over: and we've just heard that her majesty the queen has just tuned into this programme and so she is now watching this royal sketch here in this royal set. the actor on the left is wearing the great grey suit of the bbc wardrobe department and the other actor is ... about to deliver the first great royal joke here this royal evening. 

voice over: over to the fight you can see the royal cameraman, and behind... oh, we've just heard she's switched over. she's watching the 'news at ten'. 

<scene hospital run by rsm>

reggie: ... despite the union's recommendation that the strikers should accept the second and third clauses of the agreement arrived at last thursday. 

first doctor: get on parade! come on! we haven't got all day, have we? come on, come on, come on. 

first doctor: hurry up ... right! now, i know some hospitals where you get the patients lying around in bed. sleeping, resting, recuperating, convalescing. well, that's not the way we do things here, right! no, you won't be loafing about in bed wasting the doctors' time. you - you horrible little cripple. what's the matter with you? 

patient: fractured tibia, sergeant. 

first doctor: 'fractured tibia, sergeant'? 'fractured tibia, sergeant'? ooh. proper little mummy's boy, aren't we? well, i'll tell you something, my fine friend, if you fracture a tibia here you keep quiet about it! look at him! 

first doctor: he's broken both his arms and he don't go shouting about it, do he? no! 'cos he's a man - he's a woman, you see, so don't come that broken tibia talk with me. get on at the double. one, two, three, pick that crutch up, pick that crutch right up. 

patient: aaargh! 

first doctor: right, squad, 'shun! squad, right turn. squad, by the left, quick limp! come on, pick 'em up. get some air in those wounds. 

second doctor: here at st pooves, we believe in art - active recuperation techniques. we try to help the patient understand that however ill he may be, he can still fulfill a useful role in society. sun lounge please, mr griffiths. 

patient: i've got a triple fracture of the right leg, dislocated collar bone and multiple head injuries, so i do most of the heavy work, like helping the surgeon. 

interviewer's voice: what does that involve? 

patient: well, at the moment we're building him a holiday home. 

interviewer's voice: what about the nurses? 

patient: well, i don't know about them. they're not allowed to mix with the patients. 

interviewer's voice: do all the patients work? 

patient: no, no, the ones that are really ill do sport. 

voice over: yes, one thing patients here dread are the runs. 

interviewer's voice: how are you feeling? 

patient: much better. 

voice over: but patients are allowed visiting. and this week they're visiting an iron foundry at swindon, which is crying out for unskilled labour. 

voice over: but this isn't the only hospital where doctors' conditions are improving. 

third doctor: er, very little shortage of doctors here. we have over forty doctors per bed - er, patient. oh, be honest. bed. 

fourth doctor: we've every facility here for dealing with people who are rich. we can deal with a blocked purse, we can drain private accounts and in the worst cases we can perform a total cashectomy, which is total removal of all moneys from the patient. 

fifth doctor: well, here we try to help people who have to link sketches together. we try to stop them saying 'have you ever wondered what it would be like if' and instead say something like um... er... 'and now the mountaineering sketch'. 

<scene mountaineer>

mountaineer: i haven't written a mountaineering sketch. 

none: superimposed caption: 'link' 

<scene exploding version of 'the blue danube'>

mountaineer: but now over to the exploding version of the 'blue danube'. 

<scene girls' boarding school>

voice over: and now a dormitory in a girls' public school. 

first butch voice: hello, agnes... agnes are you awake? agnes.... 

first butch voice: agnes... 

second butch voice: who is it ... is that you, charlie? 

first butch voice: yeah... agnes, where's jane? 

third butch voice: i'm over here, charlie. 

first butch voice: jane, we're going down to raid the tuck shop. 

second butch voice: oh good oh ... count me in, girls. 

fourth butch voice: can i come, too, agnes? 

first butch voice: yeah, joyce. 

fifth butch voice: and me and avril... 

third butch voice: yeah, rather... and suki. 

fourth butch voice: oh, whacko the diddle-oh. 

first butch voice: cave girls... here comes miss rodgers... 

miss rodgers: all right girls, now stop this tomfoolery and get back to bed, remember it's the big match at st bridget's tomorrow. 

voice over: yes, on your screen tomorrow: 'the naughtiest girl in the school' starring the men of the 14th marine commandos. 

voice over: and now it's documentary time, when we look at the momentous last years of the second world war, and tonight the invasion of normandy performed by the girls of oakdene high school, upper fifth science. 

<scene submarine>

first pepperpot: oh, it's still raining. 

second pepperpot: i'm going down the shops. 

first pepperpot: oh, be a dear and get me some rats' bane for the budgie's boil. otherwise i'll put your eyes out. 

second pepperpot: aye, aye, captain. 

voice: coo-ee. torpedo bay. 

first pepperpot: yoo-hoo. torpedo bay. 

third pepperpot: she said torpedo bay. 

first pepperpot: yes, she did, she did. 

fourth pepperpot: yes, she said torpedo bay. she did, she did. 

voice: mrs lieutenant edale here. mrs midshipman nesbitt's got one of her headaches again, so i put her in the torpedo tube. 

first pepperpot: roger, mrs edale. stand by to fire mrs nesbitt. 

all: stand by to fire mrs nesbitt. 

first pepperpot: red alert, put the kettle on. 

voice: kettle on. 

first pepperpot: engine room, stand by to feed the cat. 

voice: standing by to feed the cat. 

first pepperpot: fire mrs nesbitt. 

none: animation: 

voice over: as an admiral who came up through the ranks more times than you've had hot dinners, i wish to join my husband admiral o.w.a giveaway in condemning this shoddy misrepresentation of our modern navy. the british navy is one of the finest and most attractive and butchest fighting forces in the world. i love those white flared trousers and the feel of rough blue serge on those pert little buttocks! 

presenter: i'm afraid we are unable to show you any more of that letter. we continue with a man with a stoat through his head. 

presenter: and now ... 

first sailor: still no sign of land ... how long is it? 

second sailor: that's a rather personal question, sir. 

first sailor: you stupid git. i meant how long we've been in the lifeboat. you've spoilt the atmosphere now. 

second sailor: i'm sorry. 

first sailor: shut up! we'll have to start again ... still no sign of land ... how long is it? 

second sailor: thirty-three days, sir. 

first sailor: thirty-three days? 

second sailor: i don't think we can hold out much longer. i don't think i did spoil the atmosphere. 

first sailor: shut up! 

second sailor: i'm sorry, i don't think i did. 

first sailor: of course you did. 

second sailor: do you think i spoilt the atmosphere? 

third sailor: well, i think you ... 

first sailor: look, shut up! shut up! ... still no sign of land ... how long is it? 

second sailor: thirty-three days. 

fourth sailor: have we started again? 

fourth sailor: wagh! 

first sailor: still no sign of land ... how long is it? 

second sailor: yes. we can't go hold out much longer, sir. we haven't had any food since the fifth day. 

third sailor: we're done for, we're done for! 

first sailor: shut up, maudling. we've just got to keep hoping someone will find us. 

fourth sailor: how are you feeling, captain? 

fifth sailor: not too good ... i ... feel ... so weak. 

second sailor: we can't hold out much longer. 

fifth sailor: listen ... chaps ... there's one last chance. i'm done for, i've got a gammy leg, i'm going fast, i'll never get through ... but ... some of you might ... so you'd better eat me. 

first sailor: eat you, sir? 

fifth sailor: yes. eat me. 

second sailor: uuuuggghhh! with a gammy leg? 

fifth sailor: you don't have to eat the leg, thompson, there's still plenty of good meat ... look at that arm. 

third sailor: it's not just the leg, sir. 

fifth sailor: what do you mean? 

third sailor: well, sir ... it's just that ... 

fifth sailor: why don't you want to eat me? 

third sailor: i'd rather eat johnson, sir. 

second sailor: oh, so would i, sir. 

fifth sailor: i see. 

fourth sailor: well, that's settled then. everyone eats me. 

first sailor: well ... i ... er ... 

third sailor: what, sir? 

first sailor: no, no, you go ahead, i won't ... 

fourth sailor: nonsense, nonsense, sir, you're starving. tuck in! 

first sailor: no, no, it's not just that ... 

second sailor: what's the matter with johnson, sir? 

first sailor: well, he's not kosher. 

third sailor: that depends how we kill him, sir. 

first sailor: yes, yes, i see that ... well to be quite frank, i like my meat a little more lean. i'd rather eat hodges. 

second sailor: oh well ... all right. 

third sailor: no, i'd still prefer johnson. 

fifth sailor: i wish you'd all stop bickering and eat me. 

second sailor: look! i'll tell you what. why don't those of us who want to, eat johnson, then you, sir, can eat my leg and then we'll make a stock of the captain and then after that we can eat the rest of johnson cold for supper. 

first sailor: good thinking, hodges. 

fourth sailor: and we'll finnish off with the peaches. 

third sailor: and we can start off with the advocados. 

first sailor: waitress! 

first sailor: we've decided now, we're going to have leg of hodges ... 

voice over: dear sir, i am glad to hear that your studio audience disapproves of the last skit as strongly as i. as a naval officer i abhor the implication that the royal navy is a haven for cannibalism. it is well known that we have the problem relatively under control, and that it is the raf who now suffer the largest casualties in this area. and what do you think the argylls ate in aden. arabs? yours etc. captain b.j. smethwick in a white wine sauce with shallots, mushrooms and garlic. 

man: stop it, stop it. stop this cannibalism. let's have a sketch about clean, decent human beings. 

<scene undertaker's sketch>

undertaker: morning. 

man: good morning. 

undertaker: what can i do for you, squire? 

man: um, well, i wonder if you can help me. you see, my mother has just died. 

undertaker: ah well, we can help you. we deal with stiffs. 

man: what? 

undertaker: well, there's three things we can do with your mum. we can bury her, burn her, or dump her. 

man: dump her? 

undertaker: dump her in the thames. 

undertaker: oh, did you like her? 

man: yes! 

undertaker: oh well, we won't dump her, then. well, what do you think? we can bury her or burn her. 

man: well, which do you recommend? 

undertaker: well, they're both nasty. if we burn her, she gets stuffed in the flames, crackle, crackle, crackle, which is a bit of a shock if she's not quite dead, but quick. 

undertaker: and then we give you handful of ashes, which you can pretend are hers. 

man: oh. 

undertaker: or, if we bury her she gets eaten up lots of weevils, and nasty maggots, 

undertaker: which as i said before is a bit of a shock if she's not quite dead. 

man: i see. well, she's definitely dead. 

undertaker: where is she? 

man: she's in this sack. 

undertaker: can i have a look? she looks quite young. 

man: yes, yes, she was. 

undertaker: fred! 

fred's voice: yeah? 

undertaker: i think we've got an eater. 

fred: right, i'll get the oven on. 

man: er, excuse me, um, are you suggesting eating my mother? 

undertaker: er ... yeah. not raw. cooked. 

undertaker: yes, roasted with a few french fries, broccoli, horseradish sauce ... 

man: well, i do feel a bit peckish. 

voice from audience: disgraceful! boo! 

undertaker: great! 

man: can we have some parsnips? 

undertaker: fred - get some parsnips. 

man: i really don't think i should. 

undertaker: look, tell you what, we'll eat her, if you feel a bit guilty about it after, we can dig a grave and you can throw up in it. 

<scene >

icelandic gent: i eric ... um 

announcer: and now ... 

it's man: it's ... 

voice: monty python's flying circus! 

<scene court scene - multiple murderer>

judge: michael norman randall, you have been found guilty of the murder of arthur reginald webster, charles patrick trumpington, marcel agnes bernstein, lewis anona rudd, john malcolm kerr, nigel sinclair robinson, norman arthur potter, felicity jayne stone, jean-paul reynard, rachel shirley donaldson, stephen jay greenblatt, karl-heinz mullet, belinda anne ventham, juan-carlos fernandez, thor olaf stensgaard, lord kimberley of pretoria, lady kimberley of pretoria, the right honourable nigel warmsly kimberley, robert henry noonan and felix james bennett, on or about the morning of the 19th december 1972. have you anything to say before i pass sentence? 

randall: yes, sir. i'm very sorry. 

judge: very sorry? 

randall: yes, sir. it was a very very bad thing to have done and i'm really very ashamed of myself. i can only say it won't happen again. to have murdered so many people in such a short space of time is really awful, and i really am very, very, very sorry that i did it, and also that i've taken up so much of the court's valuable time listening to the sordid details of these senseless killings of mine. i would particularly like to say, a very personal and sincere 'sorry' to you, m'lud, for my appalling behaviour throughout this trial. i'd also like to say sorry to the police, for putting them to so much trouble 

randall: for the literally hours of work they've had to put in, collecting evidence and identifying corpses and so forth. you know i think sometimes we ought to realize the difficult and often dangerous work involved in tracking down violent criminals like myself and i'd just like them to know that their fine work is at least appreciated by me. 

first policeman: no, no, we were only doing our job. 

second policeman: no, no, no, no. 

randall: it's very good of you to say that, but i know what you've been through. 

first policeman: no, no, we've had worse. 

third policeman: it was plain sailing apart from the arrest. 

randall: i know and i'm grateful. i'd like to apologize too to the prosecuting counsel for dragging him in here morning after morning in such lovely weather. 

counsel: well, i would have had to come in anyway. 

randall: ah good, but what a presentation of a case! 

counsel: oh thank you. 

randall: no, no, it's a privilege to watch you in action. i never had a chance. 

counsel: oh yes you did. 

randall: not after that summing up. great. 

randall: and now i must come to the jury. what can i say. i've dragged you in here, day after day, keeping you away from your homes, your jobs, your loved ones, just to hear the private details of my petty atrocities. 

foreman: no, no, it was very interesting. 

randall: but you could have had a much nicer case. 

foreman: no, no, murder's much more fun. 

first juryman: yes and so many of them. 

second juryman: excellent. 

third juryman: we've had a terrific time. 

randall: i'm sorry, i'm very moved. and so, m'lud, it only remains for you to pass the most savage sentence on me that the law can provide. 

judge: well er... not necessarily. 

randall: no, m'lud, the full penalty of the law is hardly sufficient. i insist i must be made an example of. 

judge: well yes and no. i mean society at large... 

randall: oh no, m'lud. not with mass murder. 

judge: but in this case, 

judge: don't you think? 

court: yes, yes! 

randall: oh, come on, m'lud, you've got to give me life. 

court: no, no, no, no. 

randall: well, ten years at least. 

judge: ten years! 

court: shame. shame! 

randall: well five then. be fair. 

judge: no, no. i'm giving you three months. 

randall: oh no, that's so embarrassing. i won't hear of it. give me six...please. 

judge: well, all right. six months. 

randall: thank you, m'lud. 

judge: but suspended. 

randall: oh no. 

court: hooray. 

foreman: three cheers for the defendant. hip. hip. 

foreman: hip. hip. 

all: for he's a jolly good fellow, for he's a jolly good fellow, for he's a jolly good fellow... 

voice: which nobody can deny. 

none: animation: manhunt inside a man. 

<scene icelandic saga>

none: caption: 'njorl's saga -- part ii' 

voice over: this little-known icelandic saga, written by an unknown hand in the late thirteenth century, has remained undiscovered until today. now it comes to your screens for the first time. fresh from the leaves of iceland's history. the terrible 'njorl's saga'. 

viking: it's not that terrible. 

announcer: no, i meant terribly violent. 

viking: oh yeah, yeah. 

voice over: erik njorl, son of frothgar, leaves his home to seek hangar the elder at the home of thorvald nlodvisson, the son of gudleif, half brother of thorgier, the priest of ljosa water, who took to wife thurunn, the mother of thorkel braggart, the slayer of cudround the powerful, who knew howal, son of geernon, son of erik from valdalesc, son of arval gristlebeard, son of harken, who killed bjortguaard in sochnadale in norway over cudreed, daughter of thorkel long, the son of kettle-trout, the half son of harviyoun half-troll, father of ingbare the brave, who with isenbert of gottenberg the daughter of hangbard the fierce ... 

another voice over: i must apologize for an error in the saga. evidently thorgier, the priest of ljosa water who took to wife thurunn, the mother of thorkel braggart, the slayer of gudmund the powerful, who knew howal, son of geernon, son of erik from vadalesc ... 

original voice over: well i'm afraid we're having a little trouble getting this very exciting icelandic saga started. if any of you at home have any ideas about how to get this exciting saga started again here's the address to write to: 

third voice over: help the exciting icelandic saga, 18b macnorten buildings, oban. 

none: caption: 

none: 'help the exciting icelandic saga 

none: c/o match of the day 

none: bbc tv 

none: the larches 

none: 26 westbrook avenue 

none: faversham 

none: kent' 

announcer: hello, well i was the third voice you heard just now. i'm sorry about that terrible mess. 

viking: well it wasn't all that terrible. 

announcer: no, no, i meant terrible in the sense of unfortunate. 

viking: oh. 

announcer: anyway, our plea for assistance has been answered by the north malden icelandic saga society who've given us some very useful information about the saga and so we carry on now with 'njorl's saga' with our thanks going, once again, to the north maiden icelandic saga society. 

voice over: erik njorl, son of frothgar rode off into the desolate plain. 

voice over: the land where golden streams sang their way through fresh green meadows. where there were halls and palaces, an excellent swimming pool and one of the most attractive bonus incentive schemes for industrial development in the city. only fifteen miles from excellent thames-side docking facilities and within easy reach of the proposed m25. here it was that erik njorl, son of frothgar, met the mayor. mr arthur huddinut, a local solicitor. 

mayor: welcome to north malden. 

mayor: yes, everyone is welcome to north malden, none more so than the businessmen and investors who shape our society of the future. here at north malden... 

voice over: and we apologize to viewers of 'njorl's saga' who may be confused by some of the references to north malden. after a frank exchange of views we have agreed to carry on showing this version supplied to us by the north malden icelandic saga society on the undertaking that future scenes will adhere more closely to the spirit of twelfth-century iceland. 

voice over: with moist eyes, erik leaves this happy land to return to the harsh uneconomic realities of life in the land of ljosa waters. on his way erik rested a while in the land of bjornsstrand - the land of dark forces, where gildor was king. 

voice over: proud warriors who bore on their chests the letters of their dread name. 

announcer's voice: hello? is that the north malden icelandic society? 

voice: yes, that's right. 

announcer: about this saga. 

voice: oh yes, the icelandic saga. 

announcer: yes. 

voice: good, isn't it. 

announcer: well er, i don't know, but you promised us that you would stick to the spirit of the original text. 

announcer: well i mean a lot of these things that are happening, well they just don't quite ring true. 

voice: well, it's a new interpretation really. 

announcer: well we don't want a new... 

none: flash frame caption: 'invest in malden' 

announcer: ... i mean we wanted the proper thing... i mean just look what's happening now. 

voice: banners were a very important part of icelandic lore, mr mills. 

announcer: no, no, i'm sorry i, i can't accept that, it's gone too far, i'm very sorry but we'll have to terminate the agreement. you're just trying to cash in on the bbc's exciting icelandic saga. 

voice: that's business, mr mills. 

announcer: well, that's as maybe but it's not the way the bbc works. 

voice: well i'm sorry you feel that way but er, you know, if you ever want to come to malden... 

none: flash caption: 'invest in malden' 

<scene court scene (viking)>

none: caption: 'njorl's saga -- part iii' 

man: 8 o'clock is a peak viewing hour so naturally we tend to stick to our comedy output - unless of course there's sport - because of course we know this is popular, and popularity is what television is about. quite frankly i'm sick and tired of people accusing us of being ratings conscious. 

judge: ratings conscious? 

clerk: transmitting bland garbage, m'lud. 

judge: thank you. 

man: now i'm really cheesed off. i mean it's not your high-brow bleeding plays that pull in the viewers, you know. 

man: i mean joe public doesn't want to sit down and watch three hours of documentaries every evening. 

man: he wants to sit down and he wants to be entertained, he doesn't want a load... 

man: no really - i'm absolutely fed up with this. i really am. 

judge: case dismissed. 

prosecuting counsel: case dismissed, m'lud? 

judge: oh all right, five years. 

prosecuting counsel: thank you, m'lud. 

judge: call the next case please. 

prosecuting counsel: call erik njorl, son of frothgar, brother of hangnor... 

prosecuting counsel: . 

clerk: call erik njorl ... 

usher: you are erik njorl, son of frothgar... 

judge: get on with it! 

usher: will you raise your right hand. 

judge: he obviously can't raise his right hand, you silly usher person... can you raise your right leg mr njorl? 

usher: can you raise any part of your body, mr njorl? 

usher: i see... well, we'll skip that... well, just take the book in your right hand mr njorl without raising any part of your body... oh .... 

judge: what is it now, you persistently silly usher? 

usher: he can't hold the bible m'lud. 

judge: well screw the bible! let's get on with this bleeding trial, i've got a gay lib meeting at 6 o'clock. superintendent lufthansa will you please read the charge. 

superintendent: is a charge strictly necessary, m'lud? 

judge: the press is here. 

superintendent: oh sorry! right, here we go. you are hereby charged. one, that you did, on or about 1126, conspire to publicize a london borough in the course of a bbc saga; two, that you were wilfully and persistently a foreigner; three, that you conspired to do things not normally considered illegal; four, that you were caught in possession of an offensive weapon, viz, the big brown table down at the police station. 

judge: the big brown table down at the police station? 

superintendent: it's the best we could find, m'lud ... and five... all together now... 

prosecuting counsel: call police constable pan-am. 

prosecuting counsel: now, you are police constable pan-am? 

constable: no, i shall deny that to the last breath in my body. 

constable: oh. sorry, yes. 

prosecuting counsel: police constable, do you recognize the defendant? 

constable: no. never seen him before in my life. 

prosecuting counsel: constable, will you please tell the court in your own words what happened? 

constable: oh yes! 

constable: no, anyway i clearly saw the deceased... 

clerk: defendant. 

constable: defendant! sorry. sorry, super. i clearly saw the defendant ... doing whatever he's accused of...red-handed. when kicked... he said: 'it's a fair ... cop, i done it all ... right... no doubt about... that'. then, bound as he was to the chair, he assaulted myself and three other constables while bouncing around the cell. the end. 

constable: thank you, thank you... and for my next piece of evidence... 

superintendent: i think you'd better leave it there, constable. 

prosecuting counsel: excellent evidence, constable 

judge: is he in there, d'you think? . .. hello... hello! defendant, are you there ... coo-ee! de-fend-ant... 

judge: i think you'd better go and have a look, maurice. 

clerk: don't call me maurice in court! 

judge: i'm sorry. 

<scene stock exchange report>

none: animated sketch, leading us into a studio set; a man is sitting in front of a non-animated (but cheap) graph labelled 'stock market report'. 

voice over: and now the stock market report by exchange telegraph. 

man: trading was crisp at the start of the day with some brisk business on the floor. rubber hardened and string remained confident. little bits of tin consolidated although biscuits sank after an early gain and stools remained anonymous. armpits rallied well after a poor start. nipples rose dramatically during the morning but had declined by mid-afternoon, while teeth clenched and buttocks remained firm. small dark furry things increased severely on the floor, whilst rude jellies wobbled up and down, and bounced against rising thighs which had spread to all parts of the country by mid-afternoon. after lunch naughty things dipped sharply forcing giblets upwards with the nicky nacky noo. ting tang tong rankled dithely, little tipples pooped and poppy things went pong! gibble gabble gobble went the rickety rackety roo and ... 

<scene mrs premise and mrs conclusion visit jean paul satre>

none: animation: 

mrs conclusion: hello, mrs premise. 

mrs premise: hello, mrs conclusion. 

mrs conclusion: busy day? 

mrs premise: busy! i've just spent four hours burying the cat. 

mrs conclusion: four hours to bury a cat? 

mrs premise: yes! it wouldn't keep still, wriggling about howling its head off. 

mrs conclusion: oh - it wasn't dead then? 

mrs premise: well, no, no, but it's not at all a well cat so as we were going away for a fortnight's holiday, i thought i'd better bury it just to be on the safe side. 

mrs conclusion: quite right. you don't want to come back from sorento to a dead cat. it'd be so anticlimactic. yes, kill it now, that's what i say. 

mrs premise: yes. 

mrs conclusion: we're going to have our budgie put down. 

mrs premise: really? is it very old? 

mrs conclusion: no. we just don't like it. we're going to take it to the vet tomorrow. 

mrs premise: tell me, how do they put budgies down then? 

mrs conclusion: well it's funny you should ask that, but i've just been reading a great big book about how to put your budgie down, and apparently you can either hit them with the book, or, you can shoot them just there, just above the beak. 

mrs premise: just there! 

mrs conclusion: yes. 

mrs premise: well well well. 'course, mrs essence flushed hers down the loo. 

mrs conclusion: ooh! no! you shouldn't do that - no that's dangerous. yes, they breed in the sewers, and eventually you get evil-smelling flocks of huge soiled budgies flying out of people's lavatories infringing their personal freedom. 

mrs conclusion: good morning mrs cut-out. 

mrs premise: it's a funny thing freedom. i mean how can any of us be really free when we still have personal possessions. 

mrs conclusion: you can't. you can't. i mean, how can i go off and join frelimo when i've got nine more installments to pay on the fridge. 

mrs premise: no, you can't. you can't. well this is the whole crux of jean-paul sartre's 'roads to freedom'. 

mrs conclusion: no, it bloody isn't. the nub of that is, his characters stand for all of us in their desire to avoid action. mind you, the man at the off-licence says it's an everyday story of french country folk. 

mrs premise: what does he know? 

mrs conclusion: nothing. 

mrs premise: sixty new pence for a bottle of maltese claret. well i personally think jean-paul's masterwork is an allegory of man's search for commitment. 

mrs conclusion: no it isn't. 

mrs premise: yes it is. 

mrs conclusion: isn't. 

mrs premise: 'tis. 

mrs premise: all right. we can soon settle this. we'll ask him. 

mrs conclusion: do you know him? 

mrs premise: yes, we met on holiday last year. 

mrs conclusion: in ibeezer? 

mrs premise: yes. he was staying there with his wife and mr and mr genet. oh, i did get on well with madam s. we were like that. 

mrs conclusion: what was jean-paul like? 

mrs premise: well, you know, a bit moody. yes, he didn't join in the fun much. just sat there thinking. still, mr rotter caught him a few times with the whoopee cushion. 

mrs premise: le capitalisme et la bourgeoisie ils sont la même chose... oooh we did laugh. 

mrs conclusion: well, we'll give him a tinkle then. 

mrs premise: yes, all right. she said they were in the book. 

mrs premise: where's the paris telephone directory? 

mrs inference: it's on the drier. 

mrs premise: no, no, that's budapest. oh here we are sartre ... sartre. 

mrs varley: it's 621036. 

mrs premise: oh, thank you, mrs varley. 

mrs premise: well he's out distributing pamphlets to the masses but he'll be in at six. 

mrs conclusion: oh well, i'll ring bea then. 

mrs premise: oh look, paris! 

mrs conclusion: that's not paris. jean-paul wouldn't live here. it's a right old dump. 

whicker: but this is where they were wrong. for this was no old dump, but a town with a future, an urban el dorado where the businessmen of today can enjoy the facilities of tomorrow in the comfort of yesterday. provided by a go-getting, go-ahead council who know just how loud money can talk. 

whicker: interest rates are so low... 

head of drama: well it's none of my business but we had the same trouble with one of our icelandic sagas. these people are terribly keen but they do rather tend to take over. i think i'd stick to caribbean islands if i were you. 

head of drama: fine... and now back to the saga. 

none: caption: 'njorl's saga - part iv' 

mrs premise: here - this is not paris, this is iceland. 

mrs conclusion: oh, well, paris must be over there then. 

mrs premise: oh, here we are, number 25 .... 

mrs premise: flat 1, duke and duchess of windsor, flat 2, yves montand, flat 3, jacques cousteau, flat 4, jean genet and friend, flat 5, maurice laroux... 

mrs conclusion: who's he? 

mrs premise: never heard of him. flat 6, marcel marceau, 'walking against the wind' ltd. flat 7, indira gandhi? 

mrs conclusion: she gets about a bit, doesn't she? 

mrs premise: yes, flat 8, jean-paul and betty-muriel sartre. 

mrs premise: c'est nous, betty-muriel, excusez que nous sorerues en retard. 

voice: entrez. 

mrs premise: oui, merci. 

mrs sartre: oh, rubbish. 

mrs sartre: bonjour. 

mrs conclusion: parlez vous anglais? 

mrs sartre: oh yes. good day. 

mrs sartre: hello, love! 

mrs premise: hello! oh this is mrs conclusion from no. 46. 

mrs sartre: nice to meet you, dear. 

mrs conclusion: hello. 

mrs premise: how's the old man, then? 

mrs sartre: oh, don't ask. he's in one of his bleeding moods. 'the bourgeoisie this is the bourgeoisie that' - he's like a little child sometimes. i was only telling the rainiers the other day - course he's always rude to them, only classy friends we've got - i was saying solidarity with the masses i said... pie in the sky! oooh! you're not a marxist are you mrs conclusion? 

mrs conclusion: no, i'm a revisionist. 

mrs sartre: oh good. i mean, look at this place! i'm at my wits end. revolutionary leaflets everywhere. one of these days i'll revolutionary leaflets him. if it wasn't for the goat you couldn't get in here for propaganda. 

mrs premise: oh very well. can we pop in and have a word with him? 

mrs sartre: yes come along. 

mrs premise: thank you. 

mrs sartre: but be careful. he's had a few. mind you he's as good as gold in the morning, i've got to hand it to him, but come lunchtime it's a bottle of vin ordinaire - six glasses and he's ready to agitate. 

mrs premise: coo-ee! jean-paul? jean-paul! it's only us. oh pardon ... c'est même nous... 

mrs premise: jean-paul. your famous trilogy 'rues à liberté, is it an allegory of man's search for commitment? 

jean-paul: oui. 

mrs premise: i told you so. 

mrs conclusion: oh coitus. 

<scene whicker island>

none: caption: 'whicker's world' 

first whicker: today we look at a vanishing race. a problem people who are fast disappearing off the face of the earth. 

second whicker: a race who one might say are losing a winning battle. 

third whicker: they live in a sunshine paradise, a caribbean dream, where only reality is missing. 

fourth whicker: for this is whicker island. 

fifth whicker: an island inhabited entirely by ex-international interviewers in pursuit of the impossible dream. 

first whicker: the whole problem of whicker island is here in a nutshell. 

second whicker: there are just too many whickers. 

third whicker: the light-weight suits. 

fourth whicker: the old school tie. 

fifth whicker: the practised voice of the seasoned campaigner. 

first whicker: cannot hide the basic tragedy here. 

second whicker: there just aren't enough rich people left to interview. 

third whicker: you can't teach an old dog new tricks and so 

third whicker: you find them... 

fourth whicker: sitting beside elegant swimming pools... 

fifth whicker: ... sipping martinis... 

first whicker: .. and waiting for the inevitable interview. 

second whicker: i talked to the island's only white man, father pierre. 

third whicker: father pierre, why did you stay on in this colonial campari-land where the clink of glasses mingles with the murmur of a million mosquitoes, where waterfalls of whisky wash away the worries of a world-weary whicker, where gin and tonic jingle in a gyroscopic jubilee of something beginning with j - father pierre, why did you stay on here? 

father pierre: well mainly for the interviews. 

fifth whicker: well there you have it, a crumbling... 

first whicker: ... empire in the sun-drenched... 

second whicker: caribbean, where the clichés sparkle on the waters... 

third whicker: ... like the music of repeat fees... 

first whicker: and so... 

fifth whicker: ... from whicker island... 

first whicker: ... it's... 

second whicker: ... fare... 

third whicker: ... well and... 

fourth whicker: ... bon... 

fifth whicker: . .. voy... 

first whicker: ... age. 

<scene >

voice over: who, a year ago, had heard of mr and mrs brian norris of 37, gledhill gardens, parsons green? and yet their epic journey in ebw 343 has set them alongside thor heyerdahl and sir edmund hillary. starting only with a theory, mr norris set out to prove that the inhabitants of hounslow could have been descendants of the people of surbiton who had made the great trek north. no newcomer to this field, mr norris's 'a short history of motor traffic between purley and esher' had become a best-selling minor classic in the car-swapping belt. 

voice over: and thirdly, the similarity of speech. 

man on right: are you still running the gdbdmdb? 

man on left: yes, but i've had the excess nipples woppled to remove tamping. 

man on right: jolly good. 

voice over: were these just coincidences, or were they, as mr norris believed, part of an identical cultural background? one further discovery convinced him. 

voice over: the lawnmower. surely such a sophisticated household gadget could not have been generated independently in two separate areas. mr norris was convinced. 

mr norris's voice: i'm convinced. 

voice over: but how to prove it. 

mr norris's voice: but how to prove it. 

voice over: there was only one way to see if the journey between surbiton and hounslow was possible, and that was to try and make it. months of preparation followed whilst mr norris continued his research in the putney public library, 

voice over: and mrs norris made sandwiches. 

voice over: finally, by april, they were ready. on the 23rd, mr and mrs norris set out from 'abide-a-wee' to motor the fifteen miles to surbiton, watched by a crowd of local well-wishers. 

voice over: this would be the last they'd see of civilization. mr norris's diary for the 23rd reveals the extraordinary calmness and deep inner peacefulness of his mind. 

mr norris's voice: 7.30 fed cat. 

mr norris's voice: 8.00 breakfast. 

mr norris's voice: 8.30 yes (successfully). 

mr norris's voice: 9.00 set out on historic journey. 

voice over: on the morning of the 24th, early to avoid the traffic, mr norris's historic expedition set out from surbiton - destination hounslow. early on they began to perceive encouraging signs. 

voice over: 'wrong way' norris had accidentally stumbled on a piece of anthropological history. it was the inhabitants of hounslow who had made the great trek south to the sunnier pastures of surbiton, and not vice versa, as he had originally surmised. this was the secret of surbiton! happy and contented mr norris returned to the calmer waters of chartered accountancy, for, in his way, 'wrong way' norris was right. 

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

voice: monty python's flying circus. 

<scene schoolboys' life assurance company>

headmaster: knock, enter and approach. 

headmaster: right, it's come to my notice that certain boys have been running a unit-trust linked assurance scheme with fringe benefits and full cash-in endowment facilities. apparently small investors were attracted by the wide-ranging portfolio and that in the first week the limited offer was oversubscribed eight times. 

stebbins: it was tidwell's idea, sir. 

headmaster: shut up, stebbins! i haven't finished. oh, by the way, congratulations on winning the italian grand prix at monza. 

stebbins: thank you, sir. 

headmaster: shut up. now then, this sort of extra-curricular capitalist expansion has got to stop. i made it quite clear when potter tried to go public last term, that these massive stock exchange deals must not happen in big school. is that clear, balderston? 

balderston: yes, sir. 

headmaster: oh, and balderston, next time you do a 'panorama' report on the black ghettos you 

headmaster: must 

headmaster: get an exeat form from mr dibley. 

balderston: sorry, sir. 

headmaster: shut up, and stop slouching. now, the reason i called you in here today, is that my wife is having a little trouble with her,.. er... with her waterworks, and i think she needs a bit of attention. now, which one of you is the surgeon? 

headmaster: ah! tidwell. good. well, i want you to come along and have a look at the wife. 

tidwell: oh, sir! why don't you ask stebbins? he's a gynaecologist. 

stebbins: ooh! you rotten stinker, tidwell! 

headmaster: is this true, stebbins? are you a gynaecologist? 

stebbins: yes, sir. 

headmaster: right, just the man. how much do you charge? 

stebbins: thirty guineas, sir. 

headmaster: excellent. right. i want you to go along to see the wife. give her a full examination, and let me know the results by the end of break. and don't pick your nose! 

<scene how to rid the world of all known diseases>

alan: hello. 

noel: hello. 

alan: well, last week we showed you how to become a gynaecologist. and this week on 'how to do it' we're going to show you how to play the flute, how to split an atom, how to construct a box girder bridge, how to irrigate the sahara desert and make vast new areas of land cultivatable, but first, here's jackie to tell you all how to rid the world of all known diseases. 

jackie: hello, alan. 

alan: hello, jackie. 

jackie: well, first of all become a doctor and discover a marvellous cure for something, and then, when the medical profession really starts to take notice of you, you can jolly well tell them what to do and make sure they get everything right so there'll never be any diseases ever again. 

alan: thanks, jackie. great idea. how to play the flute. 

alan: well here we are. you blow there and you move your fingers up and down here. 

noel: great, great, alan. well, next week we'll be showing you how black and white people can live together in peace and harmony, and alan will be over in moscow showing us how to reconcile the russians and the chinese. so, until next week, cheerio. 

alan: bye. 

jackie: bye. 

<scene mrs niggerbaiter explodes>

mrs nigger-baiter: oh, yes, he's such a clever little boy, just like his father. 

mrs s: d'you think so, mrs nigger-baiter? 

mrs nigger-baiter: oh yes, spitting image. 

son: good afternoon, mother. good afternoon, mrs nigger-baiter. 

mrs nigger-baiter: ooh, he's walking already! 

mrs s: yes, he's such a clever little boy, aren't you? coochy coochy coo . . . 

mrs nigger-baiter: hello, coochy coo... 

mrs s: hello, hello... 

mrs nigger-baiter: oochy coochy. 

mrs nigger-baiter: look at him laughing... ooh, he's a chirpy little fellow. isn't he a chirpy little fellow ... eh? eh? does he talk does he talk, eh? 

son: of course i talk, i'm minister for overseas development. 

mrs nigger-baiter: ooh, he's a clever little boy - he's a clever little boy. 

mrs nigger-baiter: do you like your rattle? do you like your rattle? look at his little eyes following it ... look at his iggy piggy piggy little eyeballs eh... oo... he's got a tubby tum-tum. oh, he's got a tubby tum-tum. 

son: mother, could i have a quick cup of tea please. i have an important statement on rhodesia to make in the commons at six. 

mrs s: oh, mrs nigger-baiter's exploded. 

son: good thing, too. 

mrs s: she was my best friend. 

son: oh, mother, don't be so sentimental. things explode every day. 

mrs s: yes, i suppose so. anyway, i didn't really like her that much. 

<scene vicar/salesman>

vicar: hello, i'm your new vicar. can i interest you in any encyclopaedias? 

mrs s: ah, no thank you. we're not church people, thank you. 

vicar: how about brushes? nylon or bristle? strong-tufted, attractive colours. 

mrs s: no - really, thank you, vicar. 

vicar: oh dear ... turkey? cup final tickets? 

mrs s: no, no really, we're just not religious thank you. 

vicar: oh, well. bye bye. 

mrs s: bye bye, vicar. 

vicar: remember, if you do want anything... jewellery, ascot water heaters... 

mrs s: thank you, vicar. 

mrs s: it's funny, isn't it? how your best friend can just blow up like that? i mean, you wouldn't think it was medically possible, would you? 

doctor: this is where mrs shazam was so wrong. exploding is a perfectly normal medical phenomenon. in many fields of medicine nowadays, a dose of dynamite can do a world of good. for instance, athlete's foot - an irritating condition - can be cured by applying a small charge of tnt between each toe. 

vicar: hello, i'm your new vicar, can i interest you in any of these watches, pens or biros? 

doctor: no ... i'm not religious, i'm afraid. 

vicar: oh, souvenirs, badges... a little noddy dog for the back of the car? 

doctor: no thank you, vicar. good morning. 

vicar: oh, morning. 

doctor: now, many of the medical profession are sceptical about my work. they point to my record of treatment of athlete's foot sufferers - eighty-four dead, sixty-five severely wounded and twelve missing believed cured. but then, people laughed at bob hope, people laughed at my wife when she wrapped herself up in greaseproof paper and hopped into the social security office, but that doesn't mean that pasteur was wrong! look, i'll show you what i mean. 

none: animation: 

skeleton: watch it, mate. i'm not going to stay round here getting poked and prodded all day. 

<scene farming club>

presenter: john cobbley is the musical and artistic director of covent garden. he is himself a talented musician, he is a world famous authority on nineteenth-century russian music and he's come into the studio tonight to talk about tschaikowsky, which is a bit of a pity as this is 'farming club'. on 'farming club' tonight we'll be taking a look at the ministry's 

presenter: latest preventative proposals to deal with a possible outbreaks of foot and mouth, we'll be talking later to the man who believes that milk yields can be increased dramatically, but first a farming club special, the life of tschaikowsky. 

<scene 'life of tschaikowsky'>

none: roller caption: 'farming club, in association with the potato marketing board, also in association with the beetroot, ham, egg and tomato marketing board, and also in association with the little green bits of cucumber diced with shallots, garnished with chives and served with a roquefort dressing makes an excellent appetizer or side dish with a steak or a stew marketing board, presents: the life of peter ilyich tschaikowsky, in association with the peter ilyich tschaikowsky marketing board' 

presenter: tschaikowsky. was he the tortured soul who poured out his immortal longings into dignified passages of stately music, or was he just an old poof who wrote tunes? 

presenter: and it contains material that some people might find offensive but which is really smashing. 

second presenter: peter ilyich tschaikowsky was born in 1840 in a ken russell film just outside st petersburg. his father 

second presenter: . in 1863, however, tschaikowsky was sent to moscow to study the piano and, when he'd finished that, the living room. maurice takes up the story. 

maurice: well, guess what, the very next thing he did was to go to this extraordinary but 

maurice: extraordinary 

maurice: duckety-poos semi-mondrian house in robin russia. harry here tammy tschaikowsky wrote some of the most sammy super symphonies you've ever henry heard in the whole of your lily life. 

none: superimposed caption: 'a famous music critic and hairdresser' 

maurice: she was such a good composer that everybody, but everybody, wanted to know, and quite right too, because she wrote some lovely bits, such as sally sleeping beauty, patsy pathétique, adrian 1812 and lots of conny concerti for vera violin and peter piano fanny forte. 

second presenter: but what do we really know of this tortured ponce? 

expert: well, if you can imagine the size of nelson's column, which is roughly three times the size of a london bus, then tschaikowsky was much smaller. his head was about the same size as that of an extremely large dog, that is to say, two very small dogs, or four very large hamsters, or one medium-size rabbit if you count the whole of the body and not just the head. robin. 

second expert: thank you. well here is a three-stage model of tschaikowsky... here you see the legs, used for walking around, and which can be jettisoned at night ... 

second expert: this small command module, the, as it were, head of the whole, as it were, body. robin. 

first expert: peter. 

first presenter: simon. 

second presenter: maurice. 

maurice: me. well, poor pet, she was like a lost lamb in an abattoir. eventually she dickie died of colin cholera in st patsy petersburg, in gertie great percy pain. 

voice over: here to play tchaikowsky's first piano concerto in b flat minor is the world-famous soloist sviatoslav richter. during the performance he will escape from a sack, three padlocks and a pair of handcuffs. 

<scene trim-jeans theatre>

gary: good evening. this new series of 'trim-jeans theatre presents' will enable you to enjoy the poetry of t. s. eliot whilst losing unsightly tummy bulge. jean. 

none: caption: 'these three people are reducing their waist, thighs, hips and abdomen even as they recommend' 

jean: wow, yes and the inches stay off. mark. 

mark: terrific! thrill to thomas a becket's kierkegaardian moment of choice while making your physique tighter, firmer, neater. 

priest: i am here. no traitor to the king. 

first knight: absolve all those you have excommunicated. 

second knight: resign those powers you have arrogated. 

third knight: renew the obedience you have violated. 

fourth knight: lose inches off your hips, thighs, buttocks and abdomen. 

gary: a terrific product. 

all: terrific. 

gary: and this comes complete with the most revolutionary guarantee in slenderizing history! 

voice over: this was kevin francis before last season's 'trim-jean play of the month' production of 'the seagull' by anton chekhov and the sauna belt trim-jean company limited. see kevin has slipped into his slenderizing garment and is inflating it with the handy little pump provided. three acts and a few special torso exercises later, kevin, as trigorin, the failed writer of sentimental romances, has lost over thirty-three inches. 

voice over: wow. what a difference. that anton chekhov can certainly write. 

gary: terrific. 

mark: terrific. 

gary: yes, why not join us for a season of classic plays and rapid slenderizing. enjoy sir john gielgud and sir ralph richardson losing a total of fifteen inches in david storey's 'home'. 

mark: enjoy the 'the trim gentlemen of verona' and 'long day's journey into night' while inches melt away. 

jean: enjoy glenda jackson with a constant snug fit and solid support in all four areas. 

gary: other productions will include... 'treasure island' ... 

gary: and the trim-jeans version of 'the great escape', with a cast of thousands losing well over fifteen hundred inches. 

<scene fish-slapping dance>

<scene world war one>

none: animation: 

nazi fish: welcome aboard, britisher pig. quite a little surprise, ja? but perhaps you would be so kind as to tell us all you know about certain allied shipping routes, ja? come on, talk! 

captain: this is your captain speaking. there is no need for panic. woman and children first. i repeat that, women and children first. 

captain: do not rush for the lifeboats - remember, women and children first. 

first officer: and red indians! 

captain: what did you have to get dressed up like that for? 

first officer: it was the only thing left. 

captain: oh. all right. 

captain: women, children and red indians... 

second officer: and spacemen! 

captain: here is a revised list. women, children, red indians and spacemen, 

captain: what's that meant to be? 

third officer: well it's a sort of impression of what a kind of renaissance courtier artist might have looked like at the court of one of the great families like the medicis or the borgias... 

fourth officer: no it's not, it's more flemish than italian. 

fifth officer: yes - that's a flemish merchant of the fifteenth or sixteenth centuries... 

third officer: what! with these tassles? 

fourth officer: yes, yes. they had those fined doublets going tapering down into the full hose you know - exactly like that. 

captain: now, what is it meant to be? i've got to tell them something. .. is it a flemish merchant? 

third officer: no, it is not a flemish merchant. it's more a sort of idealized version of the complete renaissance man... 

captain: oh, all right. 

fourth officer: it's not... 

captain: all right! all right! 

captain: and a sort of idealized version of complete renaissance men first! 

none: caption: 'a few days later' 

third officer's voice: flemish merchants did not wear hand-embroidered chevrons. they did not! 

police chief: yes, gomez? 

police chief: you see the bbc has to pay an actor twenty guineas if he speaks and it makes a bit of a hole in the budget... 

guard: twenty- 

guard: eight 

guard: guineas, sir! ooh, sorry. 

police chief: you fool gomez - that's twenty-eight guineas ... 

second guard: what about me, sir? 

police chief: are you supposed to speak? 

second guard: no, sir. 

police chief: but you've just spoken! 

second guard: oh, sorry, sir. 

police chief: you fool, that's, that's fifty-six guineas before we've even started; 

police chief: what did he do that for? 

second guard: it's a stunt, sir, an extra twenty guineas. 

police chief: look! we can't afford it! the bbc are short of money as it is. 

<scene the bbc is short of money>

newsreader: the bbc wishes to deny rumours that it is going into liquidation. mrs kelly, who owns the flat where they live, has said that they can stay on till the end of the month ... 

newsreader: that's all from me so... goodnight. 

mr kelly's voice: are you going to be in there all night? 

newsreader: it's just a bulletin, mr kelly... and now back to the story 

newsreader: ... all right! 

first guard: ve found ze men, valking on ze beach, my capitain. 

captain: we're british naval officers, and entitled to be... 

<scene puss in boots>

all: it's ... puss! 

audience: hello, puss! 

principal boy: hello, children! 

police chief: stop! stop this adaptation of 'puss-in-boots'! this is the police department of the state of venezuela! 

principal boy: oh no it isn't! 

police chief: oh, yes it is! 

police chief: shut up! shut up! 

police chief: now i'm going to ask you some questions, and remember, if you do not give me correct answers, we have ways of making you answer! 

voice from back: like not paying twenty-eight guineas. 

police chief: shut up! now, what ship are you from? 

captain: we are from the ss mother goose, we were twelve days out from port of spain, and i ... 

second guard: i got thirty bob for the trousers! 

captain: we are from ss mother goose. we were twelve days out from port of spain, and one night i was doing my usual rounds, when i had occasion to pass the forward storage lockers... 

police chief: go on! 

captain: well, i noticed something unusual, the main bilge hatches had been opened... 

captain: as soon as it saw me, its horrible face split aside in a ghastly look of terror. his head, which was like ... 

scene shifter: could you sign this please? 

captain: a small, small rat was ghastly and horrible and befurred... its little red eyes glinted in the unaccustomed glare of the midday sun and before i could shut the hatch, it sprang upon me with one almighty... 

mrs kelly: what's this about doing the 'horse of the year show' in here tonight? 

police chief: i'm sorry, mrs kelly. we don't know, i'm afraid - this is drama. 

mrs kelly: mr fox told me, before he went down to the pub, that they were doing 'horse of the year show' in here tonight at 9.10. 

police chief: this is bbc 2 

police chief: . 

captain: i think bbc 1 are in the kitchen. 

mrs kelly: well, i'm not having harvey smith jumping over my binette. 

mr kelly: no, come on. 

captain: ... tearing at my throat, ripping my clothes... 

mr kelly: and turn the gas off before you leave! 

police chief: all right!! 

captain: i fought it with all my strength, but it was too much for me... 

mrs kelly: right! that's it! 

mrs kelly: come on now, out! all of you - get out of my kitchen, all of you - come on! harvey smith, get out of here! 

paul fox: it's one of our most popular programmes. 

mrs kelly: that's what 

mrs kelly: you 

mrs kelly: think, mr fox! 

newsreader: well, that's all from bbc television for this evening... 

mrs kelly: shove off! go and find yourself another flat! get out! 

announcer's voice: tonight from london your special guests are lulu, ringo starr and the man you've all been waiting for - your host for tonight... 

it's man: hello, good evening, welcome. it's... 

<scene 'the money programme'>

presenter: good evening and welcome to 'the money programme'. tonight on 'the money programme', we're going to look at money. lots of it. on film, and in the studio. some of it in nice piles, others in lovely clanky bits of loose change, some of it neatly counted into fat little hundreds, delicate fivers stuffed into bulging wallets, nice crisp clean cheques, pert pieces of copper coinage thrust deep into trouser pockets, romantic foreign money rolling against the thigh with rough familiarity, 

presenter: the glitter and the glory of the guinea. the romance of the rouble. the feel of the franc, the heel of the deutschmark. the cold antiseptic sting of the swiss franc, and the sunburnt splendor of the australian dollar. 

<scene 'there is nothing quite so wonderful as money' (song)>

presenter: there is nothing quite as wonderful as money 

presenter: there is nothing like a newly minted pound 

all: everyone must hanker 

all: for the butchness of a banker 

all: it's accountancy that makes the world go round. 

presenter: you can keep your marxist ways 

presenter: for it's only just a phase. 

all: for its money, money, money, 

all: makes the world go round. 

man: it's... 

voice: monty python's flying circuses. 

<scene erizabeth l>

none: superimposed caption: 'erizabeth l' 

messenger: i bling a dispatch flom prymouth. 

clerk: flom prymouth? 

messenger: flow sil flancis dlake. 

clerk: entel and apploach the thlone. 

queen: what news flom prymouth? 

messenger: dlake has sighted the spanish freet, youl majesty. 

queen: so! phirip's garreons ale hele. how many? 

messenger: one hundled and thilty-six men of wal. 

leicester: broody herr. 

queen: is dlake plepaled? 

messenger: he has oldeled the whore freet into the blitish channer. 

queen: so, we must to tirbuly. reicestel! sil wartel lareigh! groucester! we sharr lide to... 

japanese: groucestel! groucestel! not groucester. come on, ret's get this light. reicestel! 

leicester: yes. 

japanese: that was telliber. 

leicester: what? 

japanese: telliber. 

leicester: oh! solly. 

japanese: when you have a rine, ling your berr. 

leicester: ling my berr? 

japanese: ling ling. rike this. and cut the broody herr. erizabeth! 

queen: yes? 

japanese: you should be on a bicycer. 

queen: why?! 

japanese: you rook odd rike that. 

queen: i do not look odd like this - it's that lot that looks odd. it's bleeding weird having half the tudor nobility ligging around on motorized bicycles. 

japanese: it's vely sullearist. 

queen: horsefeathers! 

leicester: listen mate. i'm beginning to have my doubts about you. 

japanese: what do you mean? 

leicester: i'm telling you straight, mate. i don't think you're luchino visconti at all. 

japanese: of course i am. me vely impoltant itarian firm dilectol. 

queen: you are a nip. 

japanese: lubbish! me genuine wop. 

japanese: alliveldelchi loma... 

leicester: he's bluffing. 

japanese: vo-oorale... ooh ... is that the time, i must fry. 

<scene fraud film squad>

inspector: not so fast, yakomoto. 

inspector: allow me to introduce myself. i am inspector leopard of scotland yard, special fraud film director squad. 

court: leopard of the yard! 

inspector: the same. only more violent. 

queen: what? 

inspector: i haven't got time to go chasing after him, there's violence to be done. 

none: animation: 

<scene salvation fuzz>

radio voice: i would like to ask the team what they would do if they were hitler. 

man's voice: gerald? 

another voice: well i'd annex the sudeterland and sign a non-aggression pact with russia. 

first man's voice: norman? 

norman's voice: well i'd do the reichstag bathroom in purples and golds and ban abortion on demand. 

woman: liberal rubbish. klaus ...what do you want with your jugged fish? 

man: halibut. 

woman: the jugged fish is halibut. 

man: well, what fish have you got that isn't jugged? 

woman: rabbit. 

man: what? rabbit fish? 

woman: yes. it's got fins. 

man: is it dead? 

woman: well, it was coughing up blood last night. 

man: all right i'll have the dead unjugged rabbit fish. 

none: caption: 'one dead unjugged rabbit fish later' 

man: well that was really horrible. 

woman: you're always complaining. 

man: what's for afters? 

woman: well there's rat cake ... rat sorbet ... rat pudding ... or strawberry tart. 

man: strawberry tart?! 

woman: well, it's got 

woman: some 

woman: rat in it. 

man: how much? 

woman: three (rather a lot really). 

man: ... well, i'll have a slice without so much rat in it. 

none: caption: 'one slice of strawberry tart without so much rat in it later' 

man: appalling. 

woman: moan, moan, moan. 

son: hello, mum, hello, dad. 

man: hello, son. 

son: there's a dead bishop on the landing. 

woman: where did that come from? 

son: what do you mean? 

woman: what's its diocese? 

son: well it looked a bit bath and wellsish to me. 

man: i'll go and have a look. 

woman: i don't know who keeps bringing them in here. 

son: well it's not me. 

woman: i've put three out by the bin and the dustmen won't touch 'em. 

man: leicester. 

woman: how do you know? 

man: tattooed on the back of his neck. i'm going to call the police. 

woman: shouldn't you call the church? 

son: call the church police. 

man: ...all right. 

man: the church police! 

church policeman: yus? 

woman: there's another dead bishop on the landing. 

church policeman: suffragan or diocesan? 

woman: how should i know? 

church policeman: it's tatooed on the back of their neck. ere! is that rat tart? 

woman: yes. 

church policeman: disgusting! right! the hunt is on. 

church policeman: oh lord we beseech thee tell us who croaked leicester. 

man: all right, it's a fair cop, but society is to blame. 

church policeman: agreed. 

man: i would like the three by the bin to be taken into consideration. 

church policeman: right. and now, i'd like to conclude this arrest with a hymn. 

first explorer: what a simply super little place! 

second explorer: yes, they've done wonders with it. you know this used to be one of the most swampy disease infested areas of the whole jungle, and they've turned it into this smashing little restaurant. 

second explorer: here you are omkami, thank you. hello, mr akwekwe. 

akwekwe: hello, mr spare-buttons-supplied-with-the-shirt. nice to see you again. 

second explorer: these are some of my fellow explorers: sir charles farquarson, brian bailey, betty bailey and this is mr akwekwe, who started the whole place. 

third explorer: it really is super. 

fourth explorer: terrific idea. 

akwekwe: may i recommend the alligator purees. 

akwekwe: now then, have you decided? 

second explorer: ye-es ... well there's two avocado vinaigrette here and what are you going to have brian? 

fourth explorer: er quiche lorraine for me, please. 

akwekwe: right, so that's two avocado, one quiche ... 

akwekwe: so, that's two avocado, one quiche ... 

third explorer: and a soup of the day. 

akwekwe: right. 

akwekwe: and to follow? 

second explorer: two chicken à la reine, with sauce provençale. 

first explorer: and one scampi desirée. 

third explorer: and boeuf bourguignon with a green salad. 

akwekwe: right on. two chicken! one scampi! one boeuf with green salad! 

akwekwe: there may be ... a little delay. 

second explorer: that's fine but we have to be out by three. 

akwekwe: yes, sir. yes, we'll try. 

voice over: the bbc would like to announce that the next scene is not considered suitable for family viewing. it contains scenes of violence, involving people's heads and arms getting chopped off, their ears nailed to trees, and their toenails pulled out in slow motion. there are also scenes of naked women with floppy breasts, and also at one point you can see a pair of buttocks and there's another bit where i'll swear you can see everything, but my friend says it's just the way he's holding the spear. 

voice over: because of the unsuitability of the scene, the bbc will be replacing it with a scene from a repeat of 'gardening club' for 1958. 

<scene ken russell's 'gardening club'>

none: caption: 'ken russell's gardening club 

voice over: and now back to the story. 

third explorer: that was a nasty business back at the restaurant. 

first explorer: yes, i thought most places took barclaycard nowadays. 

second explorer: where do you think they're taking us, brian? 

fourth explorer: god knows! 

third explorer: look! 

second explorer: the sacred volcano andu! which no man has seen before. 

third explorer: no, no, no, next to that. 

first explorer: the london brick company? 

third explorer: no, no, no, no - next to that. 

first explorer: the forbidden plateau of roiurama, the lost world, thrown up by mighty earth movements thousands of millions of years ago, where strange primeval creatures defying evolution, lurk in the dark, impenetrable forests, cut off forever from the outside world. 

second explorer: i still can't see it. 

fourth explorer: you don't think that's where they're taking us? 

third explorer: yes, and god knows what we'll find there. 

native: what page please? 

second explorer: what? 

native: what page in the script? 

second explorer: page 7. 

native: come on you dogs, we have time to lose, this has gone too far. 

voice over: meanwhile back in london ... at the british explorers' club in the mall... 

our hero: any news of betty bailey's expedition, hargreaves? 

hargreaves: er ... um ... er... 

our hero: page 9... 

hargreaves: 'the lost world of roiurama'. 

our hero: that's my line. 

hargreaves: oh, sorry. 'where were they going, sir'? 

our hero: the lost world of roiurama. 

hargreaves: yes sir, we've got a telegram. 

our hero: oh 

hargreaves: reads it. expedition superb. weather excellent. everything wonderful. 

our hero: i wonder what's gone wrong. 

hargreaves: for god's sake be careful... 

our hero: wait a minute... i'm going to go... after them. 

hargreaves: for god's sake be careful, sir. 

second explorer: my god, betty, we're done for... 

third explorer: we'll never get out of here... we're completely lost, lost. even the natives have gone. 

first explorer: goodbye betty, goodbye farquarson. goodbye brian. it's been a great expedition... 

first explorer: great expedition ... 

third explorer: all that'll be left of us will be a map, a compass and a few feet of film, recording our last moments... 

first explorer: wait a moment! 

fourth explorer: what is it? 

first explorer: if we're on film, there must be someone filming us. 

second explorer: my god, betty, you're right! 

third explorer: look! great to see you! 

first explorer: what a stroke of luck! 

camera crew: hello! ... 

first explorer: wait a minute! 

fourth explorer: what is it again? 

first explorer: if this is the crew who were filming us . .. who's filming us now? look! 

director: cut there man! no! no good! how we going to get feeling of personal alienation of self from society with this load of bulldog drummond crap? when i was doing 'la notte' wi' dat monica vitti gal she don't gimme none of this empire building shit, man ... 

inspector: not so fast, akarumba! allow me to introduce myself. i'm inspector baboon of scotland yard's special fraud film director squad, jungle division. 

fourth explorer: baboon of the yard! 

inspector: shut up! 

inspector: ... signor antonioni first makes use of colour to underline... 

<scene six more minutes of monty python's flying circus>

continuity voice: and now on bbc another six minutes of monty python's flying circus. 

<scene argument clinic>

receptionist: yes, sir? 

man: i'd like to have an argument please. 

receptionist: certainly, sir. have you been here before...? 

man: no, this is my first time. 

receptionist: i see. do you want to have the full argument, or were you thinking of taking a course? 

man: well, what would be the cost? 

receptionist: yes, it's one pound for a five-minute argument, but only eight pounds for a course of ten. 

man: well, i think it's probably best if i start with the one and see how it goes from there. ok? 

receptionist: fine. i'll see who's free at the moment ... mr. du-bakey's free, but he's a little bit conciliatory ... yes, try mr. barnard - room 12. 

man: thank you. 

mr barnard: what do you want? 

man: well i was told outside ... 

mr barnard: don't give me that you snotty-faced heap of parrot droppings! 

man: what! 

mr barnard: shut your festering gob you tit! your type makes me puke! you vacuous toffee-nosed malodorous pervert! 

man: look! i came here for an argument. 

mr barnard: oh! i'm sorry, this is abuse. 

man: oh i see, that explains it. 

mr barnard: no, you want room 12a next door. 

man: i see - sorry. 

mr barnard: not at all. 

mr barnard: stupid git. 

mr vibrating: come in. 

man: is this the right room for an argument? 

mr vibrating: i've told you once. 

man: no you haven't. 

mr vibrating: yes i have. 

man: when? 

mr vibrating: just now! 

man: no you didn't. 

mr vibrating: yes i did! 

man: didn't. 

mr vibrating: did. 

mr vibrating: i'm telling you i did! 

man: you did not! 

mr vibrating: i'm sorry, is this a five minute argument, or the full half hour? 

man: oh ... just a five-minute one. 

mr vibrating: fine 

mr vibrating: thank you. anyway, i did. 

man: you most certainly did not. 

mr vibrating: now, let's get one thing quite clear. i most definitely told you! 

man: you did not. 

mr vibrating: yes i did. 

mr vibrating: yes i did!! 

man: look, this isn't an argument. 

mr vibrating: yes it is. 

man: no it isn't, it's just contradiction. 

mr vibrating: no it isn't. 

man: yes it is. 

mr vibrating: it is not. 

man: it is. you just contradicted me. 

mr vibrating: no i didn't. 

man: ooh, you did! 

mr vibrating: no, no, no, no, no. 

man: you did, just then. 

mr vibrating: no, nonsense! 

man: oh, look this is futile. 

man: i came here for a good argument. 

mr vibrating: no you didn't, you came here for an argument. 

man: well, an argument's not the same as contradiction. 

mr vibrating: it can be. 

man: no it can't. an argument is a connected series of statements to establish a definite proposition. 

man: yes it is. it isn't just contradiction. 

mr vibrating: look, if i argue with you, i must take up a contrary position. 

man: but it isn't just saying 'no it isn't'. 

man: no it isn't, argument is an intellectual process ... contradiction is just the automatic gainsaying of anything the other person says. 

mr vibrating: not at all. 

man: now look! 

mr vibrating: that's it. good morning. 

man: but i was just getting interested. 

mr vibrating: sorry the five minutes is up. 

man: that was never five minutes just now! 

mr vibrating: i'm afraid it was. 

man: no it wasn't. 

mr vibrating: i'm sorry, i'm not allowed to argue any more. 

man: what!? 

mr vibrating: if you want me to go on arguing you'll have to pay for another five minutes. 

man: but that was never five minutes just now ... oh come on! 

man: this is ridiculous. 

mr vibrating: i'm very sorry, but i told you i'm not allowed to argue unless you've paid. 

man: oh. all right. 

man: there you are. 

mr vibrating: thank you. 

man: well?. 

mr vibrating: well what? 

man: that was never five minutes just now. 

mr vibrating: i told you i'm not allowed to argue unless you've paid! 

man: i've just paid. 

mr vibrating: no you didn't. 

man: i did! i did! i did! 

man: look i don't want to argue about that. 

mr vibrating: well i'm very sorry but you didn't pay. 

man: aha! well if i didn't pay, why are you arguing ... got you! 

mr vibrating: no you haven't. 

man: yes i have ... if you're arguing i must have paid. 

mr vibrating: not necessarily. i could be arguing in my spare time. 

man: i've had enough of this. 

man: oh shut up! 

man: i want to complain. 

man in charge: you want to complain ... look at these shoes ... i've only had them three weeks and the heels are worn right through. 

man: no, i want to complain about ... 

man in charge: if you complain nothing happens ... you might just as well not bother. my back hurts and ... 

man: ooh! 

spreaders: no, no, no, hold your head like this, and then go 'waaagh'! try it again. 

man: waaghh! 

spreaders: better. better. but 'waaaaaghh'! 'waaaagh'! hold your hands here ... 

man: no! 

spreaders: now. 

man: waagh! 

spreaders: that's it. that's it. good. 

man: stop hitting me! 

spreaders: what? 

man: stop hitting me. 

spreaders: stop hitting you? 

man: yes. 

spreaders: what did you come in here for then? 

man: i came here to complain. 

spreaders: oh i'm sorry, that's next door. it's being hit on the head lessons in here. 

man: what a stupid concept. 

fox: right. hold it there. 

man and spreaders: what? 

fox: allow me to introduce myself. i'm inspector fox of the light entertainment police, comedy division, special flying squad. 

man and spreaders: flying fox of the yard. 

fox: shut up! 

man: ooooh? 

spreaders: no, no, no - waagh! 

fox: and you. 

spreaders: waagh! 

fox: he's good! you could learn a thing or two from him. right now you two me old beauties, you are nicked. 

man: what for? 

fox: i'm charging you under section 21 of the strange sketch act. 

man: the what? 

fox: you are hereby charged that you did wilfully take part in a strange sketch, that is, a skit, spoof or humorous vignette of an unconventional nature with intent to cause grievous mental confusion to the great british public. 

fox: evening all. 

spreaders: it's a fair cop. 

fox: and you tosh. 

man: waaagh! 

fox: that's excellent! right, come on down the yard. 

inspector: hold it. hold it. allow me to introduce myself. i'm inspector thompson's gazelle of the programme planning police, light entertainment division, special flying squad. 

fox: flying thompson's gazelle of the yard! 

inspector: shut up! 

fox: waaaagh! 

spreaders: he's good. 

spreaders: waagh! 

man: rotten. 

inspector: good. now i'm arrestin' this entire show on three counts: one, acts of self-conscious behaviour contrary to the 'not in front of the children' act, two, always saying 'it's so and so of the yard' every time the fuzz arrives and, three, and this is the cruncher, offenses against the 'getting out of sketches without using a proper punchline' act, four, namely, simply ending every bleedin' sketch by just having a policeman come in and... wait a minute. 

policeman: hold it. 

inspector: it's a fair cop. 

<scene one more minute of monty python's flying circus>

announcer's voice: and now on bbc 1, one more minute of monty python's flying circus. 

<scene 'blood, devastation, death, war and horror'>

none: caption: 'blood, death, war, horror' 

<scene the man who speaks in anagrams>

interviewer: hello, good evening and welcome to another edition of blood, devastation, death war and horror, and later on we'll be meeting a man who does gardening.  but first on the show we've got a man who speaks entirely in anagrams. 

man: taht si crreoct. 

interviewer: do you enjoy it? 

man: i stom certainly od.  revy chum so. 

interviewer: and what's your name? 

man: hamrag - hamrag yatlerot. 

interviewer: well, graham, nice to have you on the show.  now, where do you come from? 

man: bumcreland. 

interviewer: cumberland? 

man: staht sit sepreicly. 

interviewer: and i believe you're working on an anagram version of shakespeare? 

man: sey, sey - taht si crreoct, er. ta the mnemot i'm wroking on 'the mating of the wersh'. 

interviewer: 'the mating of the wersh'?  by william shakespeare? 

man: nay, by malliwi rapesheake. 

interviewer: and what else? 

man: 'two netlemeg of verona', 'twelfth thing', 'the chamrent of venice'.... 

interviewer: have you done 'hamlet'? 

man: 'thamle'.  'be ot or bot ne ot, tath is the nestquie.' 

interviewer: and what is your next project? 

man: 'ring kichard the thrid'. 

interviewer: i'm sorry? 

man: 'a shroe! a shroe! my dingkome for a shroe!' 

interviewer: ah, ring kichard, yes...  but surely that's not an anagram, that's a spoonerism. 

man: if you're going to split hairs, i'm going to piss off. 

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

voice over: tony m. nyphot's flying risccu. 

<scene anagram quiz>

none: caption: 'chamran knebt' 

presenter: mrs scab, you have twelve hours to beat the clock. 

presenter: correct! 

pepperpot: i've done it. i've done it. ha, ha, ha! 

<scene merchant banker>

city gent: hello? ah, mr victim, i'm glad to say that i've got the go-ahead to lend you the money you require. yes, of course we will want as security the deeds of your house, of your aunt's house, of your second cousin's house, of your wife's parents' house, and of your grannie's bungalow, and we will in addition need a controlling interest in your new company, unrestricted access to your private bank account, the deposit in our vaults of your three children as hostages and a full legal indemnity against any acts of embezzlement carried out against you by any members of our staff during the normal course of their duties... no, i'm afraid we couldn't accept your dog instead of your youngest child, we would like to suggest a brand new scheme of ours under which 51% of both your dog and your wife pass to us in the event of your suffering a serious accident. fine. no, not at all, nice to do business with you. 

city gent: ah, mr ford isn't it? 

mr ford: that's right. 

city gent: how do you do. i'm a merchant banker. 

mr ford: how do you do mr... 

city gent: er... i forget my name for the moment but i am a merchant banker. 

mr ford: oh. i wondered whether you'd like to contribute to the orphan's home. 

city gent: well i don't want to show my hand too early, but actually here at slater nazi we are quite keen to get into orphans, you know, developing market and all that... what sort of sum did you have in mind? 

mr ford: well... er... you're a rich man. 

city gent: yes, i am. yes. yes, very very rich. quite phenomenally wealthy. yes, i do own the most startling quantifies of cash. yes, quite right... you're rather a smart young lad aren't you. we could do with somebody like you to feed the pantomime horse. very smart. 

mr ford: thank you, sir. 

city gent: now, you were saying. i'm very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very rich. 

mr ford: so er, how about a pound? 

city gent: a pound. yes, i see. now this loan would be secured by the... 

mr ford: it's not a loan, sir. 

city gent: what? 

mr ford: it's not a loan. 

city gent: ah. 

mr ford: you get one of these, sir. 

city gent: it's a bit small for a share certificate isn't it? look, i think i'd better run this over to our legal department. if you could possibly pop back on friday... 

mr ford: well do you have to do that, couldn't you just give me the pound? 

city gent: yes, but you see i don't know what it's for. 

mr ford: it's for the orphans. 

city gent: yes? 

mr ford: it's a gift. 

city gent: a what? 

mr ford: a gift. 

city gent: oh a gift! 

mr ford: yes. 

city gent: a tax dodge. 

mr ford: no, no, no, no. 

city gent: no? well, i'm awfully sorry i don't understand. can you just explain exactly what you want. 

mr ford: well, i want you to give me a pound, and then i go away and give it to the orphans. 

mr ford: well, that's it. 

city gent: no, no, no, i don't follow this at all, i mean, i don't want to seem stupid but it looks to me as though i'm a pound down on the whole deal. 

mr ford: well, yes you are. 

city gent: i am! well, what is my incentive to give you the pound? 

mr ford: well the incentive is - to make the orphans happy. 

city gent: happy?... you quite sure you've got this right? 

mr ford: yes, lots of people give me money. 

city gent: what, just like that? 

city gent: must be sick. i don't suppose you could give me a list of their names and addresses could you? 

mr ford: no, i just go up to them in the street and ask. 

city gent: good lord! that's the most exciting new idea i've heard in years! it's so simple it's brilliant! well, if that idea of yours isn't worth a pound i'd like to know what is. 

mr ford: oh, thank you, sir. 

city gent: the only trouble is, you gave me the idea before i'd given you the pound. and that's not good business. 

mr ford: isn't it? 

city gent: no, i'm afraid it isn't. so, um, off you go. 

city gent: nice to do business with you. 

mongol: anyway. 

<scene pantomime horses>

city gent: and off we go again. 

city gent: ah miss godfrey could yould send in the pantomime horses please. 

city gent: now i've asked you to ... 

city gent: no, i'm afraid there's no redundancy scheme. 

<scene life and death struggles>

voice over: pang! right in the toast. a brief struggle and all is over. poor breakfast! another victim of the.... aargh! 

none: animation: 

<scene mary recruitment office>

none: caption: 'the makers of this film would like to thank the following people who gave us lots of money to see their names in lights: victor - his friend bobby - and - mary 

voice over: sketch just starting, actor wanted. 

mr man: good morning. 

rsm: morning, sir. 

mr man: i'd like to join the army please. 

rsm: i see. short service or long service commission, sir? 

mr man: as long as possible please. 

rsm: right well i'll just take a few particulars and then... 

rsm: shove off! 

rsm: then there'll be a few forms to sign, and of course we'll need references and then a full medical examination by the ... 

mr man: yes. yes, yes i see. 

mr man: i was just wondering whether it would be possible for me to join... the women's army? 

rsm: the women's royal army corps, sir? 

mr man: yes. i was just thinking, you know, if it was possible for me to have my choice ... i'd prefer to be in the women's royal amy corps. 

rsm: well, i'm afraid that the people that recruit here normally go straight into the scots guards. 

mr man: which is all... men... i suppose? 

rsm: yes it is. 

mr man: yes. are there any regiments which are more effeminate than others? 

rsm: well, no sir. i mean, apart from the marines, they're all dead butch. 

mr man: you see, what i really wanted was a regiment where i could be really quiet and have more time to myself to work with fabrics, and creating new concepts in interior design. 

rsm: working with fabrics and experimenting with interior design! 

mr man: yes. 

rsm: oh well you want the durham light infantry then, sir. 

mr man: oh. 

rsm: oh yes. that's the only regiment that's really doing something new with interior design, with colour, texture, line and that. 

mr man: i see. 

rsm: oh yes, i mean their use of colour with fabrics is fantastic. i saw their pattern book the other day - beautiful, beautiful. savage tans, great slabs of black set against aggressive orange. it really makes you want to shout out, this is good! this is real! 

mr man: really? 

rsm: oh yes. i mean the inniskillin fusiliers and the anglian regiment are all right if you're interested in the art nouveau william morris revival bit, but if you really want a regiment of the line that is really saying something about interior decor, then you've got to go for the durham light infantry. 

mr man: oh, i've had enough of this. i'm handing in my notice. 

rsm: what do you mean? 

mr man: well i mean, when i applied for this job i thought i'd get a few decent lines but you end up doing the whole thing. i mean my last five speeches have been 'really, really - i see - i see' and 'really'. i wouldn't give those lines to a dog. 

rsm: all right, all right, all right, sonny. i'll tell you what. we'll do something different. i'll be a bus conductor, and you can be a really funny passenger on a bus. 

<scene bus conductor sketch>

rsm: any more fares please? i've got a chauffeur and every time i go to the lavatory he drives me potty! boom-boom! one in a row 

rsm: i'm not unusual. i'm just... 

mr man: fivepenny please. 

rsm: five beautiful pennies going in to the bag... and you are the lucky winner of... one fivepenny ticket! 

mr man: look! 

rsm: i am looking - it's the only way i keep my eyelids apart! boom-boom! every one a maserati! 

mr man: look! you said i was going to be a funny passenger. 

rsm: what do you mean? 

mr man: i mean, all i said was, fivepenny please, you can't call that a funny line. 

rsm: well it's the way you said it. 

mr man: no it isn't. nobody can say 'fivepenny please' and make it funny. 

<scene the man who makes people laugh uncontrollably>

city gent: fivepenny please. 

city gent: morning. 

city gent: not so warm today, george. 

city gent's voice: good morning. 

boss: come in, mr horton. 

city gent: morning, sir. 

boss: do - do sit down. 

city gent: thank you, sir. 

boss: now then horton, you've been with us for twenty years, and your work in the accounts department has been immaculate 

boss: ... has undermined the competence of this firm to such a point that i'm afraid that i've got no option but to sack you. 

city gent: it couldn't have come at a worse time. there's school fees for the two boys coming up, and the wife's treatment costing more now ... i don't know where the money's coming from as it is. and now i don't see any future ... i'd been hoping i'd be able to hang on here just for the last couple of years but... now ... i just want to go out and end it all. 

<scene army captain as clown>

rsm: thank you! thank you! thank you! thank you and now for the fish - the fish down the trousers. 

rsm: it's not my mush - it's your mush. it's your laugh - it's your laugh mate - not mine. it's your bleeding laugh. 

<scene gestures to indicate pauses in a televised talk>

none: caption: 'the bols story' 

none: caption: 'the story of holland's most famous aperitif' 

mr orbiter: good evening. well tonight, we are going to talk about... well that is... i am going to talk about... well actually i am talking about it now... well i'm not talking about it now, but i am talking... i know i'm pausing occasionally, and not talking during the pauses, but the pauses are part of the whole process of talking... when one talks one has to pause... er ... like then! i paused ... but i was still talking ... and again there! no the real point of what i'm saying is that when i appear not to be talking don't go nipping out to the kitchen, putting the kettle on ... buttering scones... or getting crumbs and bits of food out of those round brown straw mats that the teapot goes on... because in all probability i'm still talking and what you heard was a pause ... er ... like there again. look! to make it absolutely easier, so there's no problem at all, what i'll do, i'll give you some kind of sign, like this 

mr orbiter: all right? 

none: superimposed caption: 'the end' 

mr orbiter: no, no! no sorry - just demonstrating... haven't finished. haven't started yet. 

mr orbiter: tonight i want to talk about... 

adrian: we interrupt this programme to annoy you and make things generally irritating for you. 

mr orbiter: ... with a large piece of wet paper. 

<scene neurotic announcers>

adrian: good evening, we interrupt this programme again, a) to irritate you and, b) to provide work for one of our announcers. 

jack: good evening, i'm the announcer who's just been given this job by the bbc and i'd just like to say how grateful i am to the bbc for providing me with work, particularly at this time of year, when things are a bit thin for us announcers... um... i don't know whether i should tell you this, but, well, i have been going through a rather tough time recently. things have been pretty awful at home. my wife, josephine... 'joe-jums' as i call her ... who is also an announcer... 

joe-jums: hello. 

jack: ... has not been able to announce since our youngest, clifford, was born, and, well, 

dick: hello, i'm another announcer, my name's dick. joe-jums just rang me and said jack was having a bad time with this announcement, so i've just come to give him a hand. how is he, joe-jums? 

joe-jums: pretty bad, dick. 

dick: jack... it's dick... do you want me to make the announcement? 

jack: no, no dick. i must do it myself... 

jack: it's my last chance with the bbc, i can't throw it away... i've got to do it ... for joe-jums... for the kids... i've got to go through with it... 

dick: good man. now remember your announcer's training: deep breaths, and try not to think about what you're saying... 

jack: good evening. this 

jack: is bbc 1... 

joe-jums: good luck, jack. 

dick: keep going, old boy. 

jack: it's... nine o'clock... and... time... for... the news... read by... richard baker. 

joe-jums: you've done it. 

dick: congratulations, old man! 

joe-jums: fantastic darling, you were brilliant. no, no, it was the best you ever did. 

jack: thank god. 

joe-jums: it was absolutely super. 

dick: ... have a drink. for god's sake drink this... 

jack: fantastic. 

dick: the least i could do - super - i must come over. 

jack: i can't tell you how much that means. 

<scene the news with richard baker>

baker: ... until the name maudling is almost totally obscured. that is the ned of the nicro-not wens. and now it's time for the late night film. 

<scene 'the pantomime horse is a secret agent'>

none: the pantomime horse is a secret agent film. 

none: written by talbot rothwell and mireille mathieu. 

none: based on an idea by edward vii. 

none: directed by queen juliana of the netherlands. 

none: produced by sir alec douglas-home and king haakon of norway. 

none: a corpse-hakkon production. 

girl: oh pantomime horse, that was wonderful. 

dobbin: would you like another glass? 

girl: no, no, i mustn't. it makes me throw up... oh, i'm so bleeding happy. 

dobbin: oh, simone! 

girl: oh, pantomime horse. 

loony: then... 

voice over: and now the english pantomime horse has very nearly caught up with the russian pantomime horse, i think he's going to take him any moment now but what is this? what is this? 

voice over: my goodness me it's the duke of kent to the rescue... 

voice over: here you see some english comic actors engaged in a life or death struggle with a rather weak ending. this is typical of the zany madcap world of the irresistible kooky funsters. the english pantomime horse wins and so is assured of a place in british history and a steady job in a merchant bank. unfortunately, before his pension rights are assured, he catches bronchitis and dies, another victim of the need to finish these shows on time. 

<scene >

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

voice over: monty python's flying circuses... 

<scene 'summarize proust competition'>

voice over: good evening, and welcome to the arthur ludlow memorial baths, newport, for this year's finals of the all-england summarize proust competition. 

voice over: alec and eric bedser, ex-surrey cricketers, stewart surridge, ex-captain of surrey, omar sharif, laurie fishlock, ex-surrey opening batsman, peter may, the former surrey and england captain, and yehudi menuhin, the world-famous violinist and the president of the surrey cricket club. and right now it's time to meet your host for tonight arthur mee! 

mee: good evening and welcome, whereas proust would say, 'la malade imaginaire de recondition et de toute surveillance est bientôt la même chose'. 

mee: . 

harry: proust's novel ostensibly tells of the irrevocability of time lost, the forfeiture of innocence through experience, the reinstallment of extra-temporal values of time regained, ultimately the novel is both optimistic and set within the context of a humane religious experience, re-stating as it does the concept of intemporality. in the first volume, swarm, the family friend visits... 

mee: well tried, harry. 

voice over: a good attempt there but unfortunately he chose a general appraisal of the work, before getting on to the story and as you can see 

voice over: he only got as far as page one of 'swarm's way', the first of the seven volumes. a good try though and very nice posture. 

mee: harry bagot, you're from luton? 

harry: yes, arthur, yeah. 

mee: now harry what made you first want to try and start summarizing proust? 

harry: well i first entered a seaside summarizing proust competition when i was on holiday in bournemouth, and my doctor encouraged me with it. 

mee: and harry, what are your hobbies outside summarizing? 

harry: well, strangling animals, golf and masturbating. 

mee: well, thank you harry bagot. 

voice over: well there he goes. harry bagot. he must have let himself down a bit on the hobbies, golf's not very popular around here, but never mind, a good try. 

mee: thank you ladies and gentlemen. mr rutherford from leicester, are you ready ronald? 

mee: right. on the summarizing spot. you have got fifteen seconds from now. 

ronald: er, well, swann, swann, there's this house, there's this house, and er, it's in the morning, it's in the morning - no, it's the evening, in the evening and er, there's a garden and er, this bloke comes in - bloke comes in - what's his name - what's his name, er just said it - big bloke - swann, swann 

mee: and now ladies and gentlemen, i'd like you to welcome the last of our all-england finalists this evening, from bingley, the bolton choral society and their leader superintendent mcgough, 

mee: all right bingley, remember you've got fifteen seconds to summarize proust in his entirety starting from now. 

first soloist: proust, in his first book wrote about... fa la la... 

second soloist: proust in his first book wrote about... 

tenors: he wrote about... 

voice over: very ambitious try there, but in fact the least successful of the evening, they didn't even get as far as the first volume. 

mee: well ladies and gentlemen, i don't think any of our contestants this evening have succeeded in encapsulating the intricacies of proust's masterwork, so i'm going to award the first prize this evening to the girl with the biggest tits. 

<scene everest climbed by hairdressers>

voice over: mount everest. forbidding. aloof. terrifying. the mountain with the biggest tits in the world. 

second voice over: start again! 

voice over: mount everest. forbidding. aloof. terrifying. this year, this remote himalayan mountain, this mystical temple, surrounded by the most difficult terrain in the world, repulsed yet another attempt to conquer it. this time, by the international hairdresser's expedition. 

voice over: in such freezing, adverse conditions, man comes very close to breaking point. what was the real cause of the disharmony which destroyed their chances at success? 

first climber: well, people would keep taking my hairdryer and never returning it. 

second climber: there was a lot of bitching in the tents. 

third climber: you couldn't get near the mirror. 

voice over: the leader of the expedition was colonel sir john 'teasy-weasy' butler, veteran of k2, annapurna, and vidals. his plan was to ignore the usual route around the south col and to make straight for the top. 

colonel: we established base salon here, 

colonel: from here using crampons and cutting ice steps as we went, we moved steadily up the lhotse face to the north ridge, establishing camp three where we could get a hot meal, a manicure, and a shampoo and set. 

voice over: could it work? could this eighteen-year old hairdresser from brixton succeed where others had failed? the situation was complicated by the imminent arrival of the monsoon storms. patrice takes up the story. 

patrice: well, we knew as well as anyone that the monsoons were due, but the thing was, ricky and i had just had a blow dry and rinse, and we couldn't go out for a couple of days. 

voice over: after a blazing row, the germans and italians had turned back, taking with them the last of the hair nets. on the third day a blizzard blew up. 

voice over: temperatures fell to minus thirty centigrade. inside the little tent, things were getting desperate. 

ricky: well, things have got so bad that we've been forced to use the last of the heavy oxygen equipment just to keep the dryers going. 

ricky: oh, she's a treas. 

voice over: but a new factor had entered the race. a team of french chiropodists, working with brand new cornplasters and doctor scholl's mountaineering sandals, were covering ground fast. the glasgow orpheus male voice choir were tackling the difficult north col. 

voice over: were at his heels. this was it. ricky had to make a decision. 

patrice: well, he decided to open a salon. 

voice over: it was a tremendous success. 

advert voice: challenging everest? why not drop in at ricky pules' - only 24,000 feet from this cinema. ricky and maurice offer a variety of styles for the well-groomed climber. like sherpa tensing and sir edmond hillary be number one on top, when you're number one on top? 

<scene fire brigade>

mrs little: hello, is that the fire brigade? 

first fireman: no, sorry, wrong number. 

second fireman: that phone's not stopped ringing all day. 

third fireman: what happens when you've mixed the batter, do you dice the ham with the coriander? 

first fireman: no, no, you put them in separately when the vine leaves are ready. 

second fireman: oh, no, not again. 

third fireman: take it off the hook. 

mrs little: i can't get the fire brigade mervyn. 

mervyn: here, let me try, dear. you go and play the cello. 

mrs little: oh it doesn't do any good, dear. 

mervyn: look. do you want the little hamster to live or not? 

mrs little: yes i do, mervyn. 

mervyn: well go and play the cello! 

mervyn: hello, hello, operator? yes we're trying to get the fire brigade ... no, the fire brigade. yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, what? ... 

mervyn: size eight. yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, no of course not, yes... 

mrs little: he's gone, dear. 

mervyn: what? 

mrs little: he's slipped away. 

mrs little: the sodding hamster's dead! 

mervyn: oh no!! what were you playing? 

mrs little: some mozart concertos, dear. 

mervyn: what... how did he... ? 

mrs little: his eyes just closed, and he fell into the wastepaper basket. i've covered him with a copy of the 'charlie george football book'. 

mervyn: right, you hang on. i must go and see him. 

mrs little: there was nothing we could do, mervyn. if we'd have had the whole philharmonic orchestra in there, he'd still have gone. 

mervyn: i'm going upstairs, i can't bear it. 

mrs little: there isn't an upstairs dear, it's a bungalow. 

mervyn: damn. 

mrs little: size three, yes it's just - we've lost a dear one and my son was ... yes, that's right, size eight, yes and... oh i see... yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, i see, yes, yes, i, i ... yes, yes. no ... no... yes, i see. they can't get the fire brigade mervyn - will the boys' brigade do? 

mervyn: no! they'd be useless! 

mrs little: no, he doesn't want anyone at the moment, thank you. no, yes, yes, no thank you for trying, yes, yes, ... no, saxones, yes, yes thank you, bye, bye. 

<scene our eamonn>

eamonn: mummy! 

mrs little: eamonn. 

mrs little: mervyn! look it's our eamonn - oh let me look at you, tell me how... how is it in dublin? 

eamonn: well, things is pretty bad there at the moment but there does seem some hope of a constitutional settlement. 

mrs little: oh don't talk. let me just look at you. 

eamonn: great to be home, mummy. how are you? 

mrs little: oh, i'm fine. i must just go upstairs and get your room ready. 

eamonn: it's a bungalow, mummy. 

mrs little: oh damn, yes. mervyn, mervyn - look who's here, it's our eamonn come back to see us. 

mervyn: hello, eamonn. 

eamonn: hello, merv. 

mervyn: how was dublin? 

eamonn: well as i was telling mummy here, things is pretty bad there at the moment but there does seem some hope of a constitutional settlement. 

mervyn: size seven. yes, yes, yes, yes, yes .... it's the fire brigade, they want to know if they can come round thursday evening. 

mrs little: oh no, thursday's the industrial relations bill dinner dance. can't they make it another day? 

announcer: and so it was the fire brigade eventually came round on friday night. 

mrs little: oh, so glad you could come. what would you like to drink? gin and tonic? sherry? 

eamonn: well, as i was telling mummy and mervyn earlier, things is pretty bad there at the moment but there does seem some hope of a constitutional... 

mrs little: you know i used to dread parties until i watched 'party hints by veronica'. i think it's on now... 

<scene 'party hints' with veronica smalls>

none: superimposed roller caption: 

none: the british broadcasting corporation 

none: in association with transworld international 

none: and nimrod productions present 

none: an arthur e. ricebacher 

none: and david a. seltzer production 

none: for hasbach enterprises 

none: of charles d. ortiz' adaptation 

none: of the pulitzer prizewinning idea 

none: by daniel e. stollmeyer 

none: brought to the screen from robert hughes's novel 

none: by louis h. tannhauser and vernon d. larue 

none: party hints by veronica smalls 

none: a selzenbach-tansrod production 

none: in association with 

none: victor a. lounge 

none: rolo nice sweeties 

none: fison's fertilizers 

none: time life innit-for-the-money limited 

none: the trustees of st paul's cathedral 

none: that nice mr robinson at the vet's 

none: ralph reader 

none: ralph nader 

none: the chinese government 

none: michael's auntie betty in australia 

none: a cinemascope production 

veronica: hello, last week on 'party hints' i showed you how to make a small plate of goulash go round twenty-six people, how to get the best out of your canapés, and how to unblock your loo. this week i'm going to tell you what to do if there is an armed communist uprising near your home when you're having a party. well obviously it'll depend how far you've got 

veronica: with 

veronica: your party when the signal for red revolt is raised. if you're just having preliminary aperitifs - dubonnet, a sherry or a sparkling white wine - then the guests will obviously be in a fairly formal mood and it will be difficult to tell which are the communist agitators. so the thing to do is to get some cloth and some bits of old paper, put it down on the floor and shoot everybody. this will deal with the red menace on your own doorstep. if you're having canapés, as i showed you last week, or an outdoor barbecue, then the thing to do is to set fire to all houses in the street. this will stir up anti-communist hatred and your neighbours will be right with you as you organize counter-revolutionary terror. so you see, if you act promptly enough, any left-wing uprising can be dealt with by the end of the party. bye... 

none: animation: 

<scene language laboratory>

first booth: bleck people. bleck people. rrrhodesian. kill the blecks. rrhodesian. smith, smith. kill the blecks within the five principles. 

second booth: i'm afraid i cannot comment on that until it's been officially hushed up. 

mr mann: this is our politicians booth. 

second booth: while there is no undue cause for concern, there is certainly no room for complacency. ha, ha, ha. he, he, he. 

third booth: well i'll go, i'll go to the foot of our stairs. ee ecky thump. put wood in 'ole, muther. 

third booth: yes? 

mr mann: ee ecky thump. 

third booth: ee ecky thump. 

mr mann: ee ecky thump! 

third booth: ee ecky thump! 

mr mann: excellent. 

third booth: thank you, sir. 

mr mann: it's a really quick method of learning. 

third booth: can you smell gas or is it me? 

tick: looks jolly good. 

mr mann: very good. 

mr mann: and we control everything from here. 

tick: superb. 

mr mann: well then what sort of thing were you looking for? 

tick: well, er, really something to make me a little less insignificant? 

mr mann: oh, i see sort of 'now look here, you may be chairman but your bloody pusillanimous behaviour makes me vomit!' that sort of thing?... 

tick: oh no, no, no, not really no. 

mr mann: oh i see, well perhaps something a bit more sort of clive jenkins-ish? perhaps - sort of 

mr mann: 'mr smarmy so-called harold wilson can call himself pragmatic until he's blue in the breasts'. 

tick: oh no, i really want something that will make people be attracted to me like a magnet. 

mr mann: i see, well, you want our 'life and soul of the party' tape then, i think. 

tick: what's that? 

mr mann: well it's sort of 'ello squire, haven't seen you for a bit, haven't seen you for a bit either, beryl. two pints of wallop please, love. still driving the jensen then? cheer up jack it may never happen, what's your poison then?' 

tick: fantastic, yes. 

mr mann: right, i'll just see if we've got the tape. 

voice over: start again. 

<scene travel agent>

bounder: mount everest, forbidding, aloof, terrifyring. the highest place on earth. no i'm sorry we don't go there. no. 

tourist: good morning. 

secretary: oh good morning. 

secretary: do you want to go upstairs? 

tourist: what? 

secretary: or have you come to arrange a holiday? 

tourist: er.......to arrange a holiday. 

secretary: oh sorry. 

tourist: what's all this about going upstairs? 

secretary: oh, nothing, nothing. now where were you thinking of going? 

tourist: india. 

secretary: ah one of our adventure holidays! 

tourist: yes! 

secretary: well you'd better see mr bounder about that. mr bounder, this gentleman is interested in the india overland. 

bounder: ah good morning. i'm bounder of adventure. 

tourist: my name is smoke-too-much. 

bounder: what? 

tourist: my name is smoke-too-much. mr smoke-too-much. 

bounder: well you'd better cut down a little then. 

bounder: you'd better cut down a little then. 

tourist: oh i see! cut down a bit, for smoke-too-much. 

bounder: yes, he he...i expect you get people making jokes about your name all the time, eh? 

tourist: no, no actually. actually, it never struck me before. smoke...too...much! 

bounder: anyway, you're interested in one of our adventure holidays, eh? 

tourist: yes. i saw your advert in the bolour supplement. 

bounder: the what? 

tourist: the bolour supplement. 

bounder: the colour supplement? 

tourist: yes. i'm sorry i can't say the letter 'b'. 

bounder: c? 

tourist: yes that's right. it's all due to a trauma i suffered when i was a sboolboy. i was attacked by a bat. 

bounder: a cat? 

tourist: no a bat. 

bounder: can you say the letter 'k'? 

tourist: oh yes, khaki, king, kettle, kuwait, keble bollege oxford. 

bounder: why don't you say the letter 'k' instead of the letter 'c'? 

tourist: what you mean.....spell bolour with a k? 

bounder: yes. 

tourist: kolour. oh that's very good, i never thought of that. 

bounder: anyway, about the holiday.. 

tourist: well i saw your adverts in the paper and i've been on package tours several times, you see, and i decided that this was for me. 

bounder: ah good. 

<scene watney's red barrel>

tourist: yes i quite agree with you, i mean what's the point of being treated like a sheep, i mean i'm fed up with going abroad and being treated like a sheep, what's the point of being carted around in buses surrounded by sweaty mindless oafs from kettering and boventry in their cloth caps and their cardigans and their transistor radios and their 'sunday mirrors', complaining about the tea, 'oh they don't make it properly here do they not like at home' stopping at majorcan bodegas, selling fish and chips and watney's red barrel and calamares and two veg and sitting in cotton sun frocks squirting timothy white's suncream all over their puffy raw swollen purulent flesh cos they 'overdid it on the first day'! 

bounder: yes. absolutely, yes, i quite agree... 

tourist: and being herded into endless hotel miramars and bellvueses and bontinentals with their international luxury modern roomettes and their watney's red barrel and their swimming pools full of fat german businessmen pretending they're acrobats and forming pyramids and frightening the children and barging in to the queues and if you're not at your table spot on seven you miss your bowl of campbell's cream of mushroom soup, the first item on the menu of international cuisine, and every thursday night there's a bloody cabaret in the bar featuring some tiny emaciated dago with nine-inch hips and some big fat bloated tart with her hair brylcreemed down and a big arse presenting flamenco for foreigners. 

bounder: yes, yes, now... 

tourist: and then some adenoidal typists from birmingham with diarrhoea and flabby white legs and hairy bandy-legged wop waiters called manuel, and then, once a week there's an excursion to the local roman ruins where you can buy cherryade and melted ice cream and bleedin' watney's red barrel, and one night they take you to a local restaurant with local colour and colouring and they show you there and you sit next to a party of people from rhyl who keeps singing 'torremolinos, torremolinos' and complaining about the food - 'oh! it's so greasy isn't it?' and then you get cornered by some drunken greengrocer from luton with an instamatic and dr scholl sandals and last tuesday's 'daily express' and he drones on and on and on about how mr. smith should be running this country and how many languages enoch powell can speak and then he throws up all over the cuba libres. 

bounder: will you be quiet please. 

tourist: and sending tinted postcards of places they don't know they haven't even visited, 'to all at number 22, weather wonderful, our room is marked with an "x". wish you were here.' 

bounder: shut up. 

tourist: 'food very greasy but we have managed to find this marvellous little place hidden away in the back streets.' 

bounder: shut up! 

tourist: 'where you can even get watney's red barrel and cheese and onion...' 

bounder: shut up!!! 

tourist: '...crisps and the accordionist plays "maybe it's because i'm a londoner"' and spending four days on the tarmac at luton airport on a five-day package tour with nothing to eat but dried watney's sandwhiches.... 

bounder: shut your bloody gob! i've had enough of this, i'm going to ring the police. 

bounder: hello operator, operator...i'm trying to get the police...the police yes, what? 

bounder: nine and a half, nine and a half, yes, yes...i see...well can you keep trying please... 

tourist: ...and there's nowhere to sleep and the kids are vomitting and throwing up on the plastic flowers and they keep telling you it'll only be another hour although your plane is still in iceland waiting to take some swedes to yugoslavia before it can pick you up on the tarmac at 3 a.m. in the bloody morning and you sit on the tarmac till six because of 'unforeseen difficulties'. i.e. the permanent strike of air traffic control in paris, and nobody can go to the lavatory until you take off at eight, and when you get to malaga airport everybody's swallowing enterovioform tablets and queuing for the toilets and when you finally get to the hotel, there's no water in the taps, there's no water in the pool, there's no water in the bog and there's a bleeding lizard in the bidet, and half the rooms are double-booked and you can't sleep anyway... 

secretary: oh! sorry to keep you waiting...will you come this way please... 

secretary: here they are. 

secretary: just here will do fine! goodbye. 

<scene theory on brontosauruses by anne elk (miss)>

presenter: good evening. 

none: caption: 'thrust - a quite controversial look at the world around us' 

presenter: i have with me tonight anne elk. mrs anne elk. 

miss elk: miss. 

none: superimposed caption: 'anne elk' 

presenter: you have a new theory about the brontosaurus. 

miss elk: can i just say here chris for one moment that i have a new theory about the brontosaurus. 

presenter: exactly. 

presenter: what is it? 

miss elk: where? 

presenter: no, no your new theory? 

miss elk: oh, what is my theory? 

presenter: yes. 

miss elk: oh what is my theory that it is. yes, well you may well ask me what is my theory. 

presenter: i 

presenter: am 

presenter: asking. 

miss elk: good for you. my word yes. well chris, what is it that it is - this theory of mine. well, this is what it is - my theory that i have, that is to say, which is mine, is mine. 

presenter: yes, i know it's yours, what is it? 

miss elk: where? oh, what is my theory? this is it. 

miss elk: this is how it goes. the next thing i'm going to say is my theory. ready? 

presenter: yes! 

miss elk: my theory by a. elk. brackets miss, brackets. this theory goes as follows and begins now. all brontosauruses are thin at one end, much much thicker in the middle, and then thin again at the far end. that is my theory, it is mine, and belongs to me and i own it, and what it is too. 

presenter: that's 

presenter: it 

presenter: , is it? 

miss elk: spot on, chris. 

presenter: well, er, this theory of yours seems to have hit the nail on the head. 

miss elk: and it's mine. 

presenter: yes, thank you for coming along to the studio. thank you. 

miss elk: my pleasure, chris... 

presenter: next week britain's newest wasp farm... 

miss elk: it's been a lot of fun. 

presenter: yes, thank you very much. 

miss elk: saying what my theory is. 

presenter: yes, thank you. 

miss elk: and whose it is. 

presenter: yes, thank you - that's all - thank you. ...opens next week. 

miss elk: i have another theory. 

miss elk: called my second theory, or my theory number two. 

presenter: thank you. britain's newest wasp farm... 

miss elk: this second theory which was the one that i had said... 

presenter: yes, no i'm trying... 

miss elk: which i could expound without doubt. this second theory which, with the one which i have said, forms the brace of theories which i own and which belongs to me, goes like this... 

presenter: nine and a half, wide fitting...balleys of bond street. what? no, sort of brogue. 

miss elk: this is what it is. 

presenter: eight and a half. 

miss elk: this is it... 

bounder: hello, yes,,,yes,,, 

tourist: ...and the spanish tourist board promises you that the raging cholera epidemic is merely a case of mild spanish tummy, like the last outbreak of spanish tummy in 1660 which killed half london and decimated europe, and meanwhile the bloody guardia are busy arresting sixteen-year-olds for kissing in the streets and shooting anyone under nineteen who doesn't like franco... 

presenter: the fire brigade are here. they're coming. 

bounder: hello! no, no, no i think they are all part of the british shoe corporation now. 

miss elk: chris, this other theory of mine which is mine like the other one i also own. the second theory... 

miss elk: my second theory states that fire brigade choirs seldom sing songs about marcel proust. 

voice over: start again. 

<scene tory housewives clean-up campaign>

voice over: . and it's not just the modern so-called plastic arts that get the clean-up treatment. 

voice over: and those continentals had better watch out for their dirty foreign literature. jean-paul sartre and jean genet won't know what's hit them. never mind the foulness of their language - come '73 they'll all have to write in british. 

voice over: you can keep your fastidious continental bidets mrs foreigner - mrs britain knows how to keep her feet clean ... but she'll baffle like bingo boys when it comes to keeping the television screen clean... 

voice over: better watch out for those nasty continental shows on the sneaky second channel. 

voice over: but apart from attacking that prurient hot-bed of left-wing continentalism at shepherds bush, what else do these ordinary mums think? do they accept hegelianism? 

first pepperpot: no! .. 

voice over: do they prefer leibnitz to wittgenstein? 

second pepperpot: no! no! 

voice over: and where do they stand on young people? 

third pepperpot: just here, dear. 

voice over: and their power is growing daily and when these girls roll their sleeves up its arms all the way. 

voice over: yes, this is the way to fight the constant war against pornography. 

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

voice: monty python's flying circus. 

<scene gumby brain specialist>

t. f. gumby: doctor! doctor! doctor! 

t. f. gumby: doctor! doctor! doctor! doctor! doctor! doctor! where is the doctor? 

specialist: hello! 

t. f. gumby: are you the brain specialist? 

specialist: no, no, i am not the brain specialist. no, no, i am not... yes. yes i am. 

t. f. gumby: my brain hurts! 

specialist: well let's take a look at it, mr gumby. 

t. f. gumby: no, no, no, my brain in my head. 

specialist: it will have to come out. 

t. f. gumby: out? of my head? 

specialist: yes! all the bits of it. nurse! nurse! 

specialist: nurse! nurse! nurse, take mr gumby to a brain surgeon. 

nurse: yes doctor... 

specialist: where's the 'lancet'? 

specialist: where's the bloody 'lancet'? my brain hurts too. 

surgeon: i'm going to operate!! 

t. f. gumby: hello! 

surgeon: ooh! we forgot the anaesthetic! 

operating gumbys: the anaesthetic! the anaesthetic! 

gumby anaesthetist: i've come to anaesthetize you!! 

voice: the 'nine o'clock news' which was to follow has been cancelled tonight so we can bring you the quarter finals of the all essex badminton championship. your commentator as usual is edna o'brien. 

commentator: hullo fans. begorra an' to be sure there's some fine badminton down there in essex this afternoon. we really... 

mrs jalin: george. 

mr jalin: yes, gladys. 

mrs jalin: there's a man at the door with a moustache. 

mr jalin: tell him i've already got one. 

mr jalin: all right, all right. what's he want then? 

mrs jalin: he says do we want a documentary on molluscs. 

mr jalin: molluscs?! 

mrs jalin: yes. 

mr jalin: what's he mean, molluscs? 

mrs jalin: molluscs!! gastropods! lamellibranchs! cephalopods! 

mr jalin: oh molluscs, i thought you said bacon. 

mr jalin: all right, all right. what's he charge then? 

mrs jalin: it's free. 

mr jalin: ooh! where does he want us to sit? 

mrs jalin: he says yes. 

zorba: good evening. tonight molluscs. the mollusc is a soft-bodied, unsegmented invertebrate animal usually protected by a large shell. one of the most numerous groups of invertebrates, it is exceeded in number of species only by the arthropods ... viz. 

mrs jalin: not very interesting is it? 

zorba: what? 

mrs jalin: i was talking to him. 

zorba: oh. anyway, the typical mollusc, viz, a snail 

zorba: consists of a prominent muscular portion... the head-foot... a visceral mass and a shell which is secreted by the free edge of the mantle. 

mrs jalin: dreadful isn't it? 

zorba: oh. well anyway... in some molluscs, however, viz, slugs, 

zorba: the shell is absent or rudimentary... 

mr jalin: switch him off. 

zorba: whereas in others, viz, cephalopods the head-foot is greatly modified and forms tentacles, viz, the squid. 

zorba: what are you doing? 

mrs jalin: switching you off. 

zorba: why, don't you like it? 

mrs jalin: oh it's dreadful. 

mr jalin: embarrassing. 

zorba: is it? 

mrs jalin: yes, it's perfectly awful. 

mr jalin: disgraceful! i don't know how they've got the nerve to put it on. 

mrs jalin: it's so boring. 

zorba: well ... it's not much of a subject is it... be fair. 

mrs jalin: what do you think, george? 

mr jalin: give him another twenty seconds. 

zorba: anyway the majority of the molluscs are included in three large groups, the gastropods, the lamellibranchs and the cephalopods... 

mrs jalin: we knew that 

zorba: however, what is more interesting, er ... is the molluscs's er ... sex life. 

mrs jalin: oh! 

zorba: yes, the mollusc is a randy little fellow whose primitive brain scarcely strays from the subject of the you know what. 

mrs jalin: disgusting! 

mr jalin: ought not to be allowed. 

zorba: the randiest of the gastropods is the limpet. this hot-blooded little beast with its tent-like shell is always on the job. its extra-marital activities are something startling. frankly i don't know how the female limpet finds the time to adhere to the rock-face. how am i doing? 

mrs jalin: disgusting. 

mr jalin: but more interesting. 

mrs jalin: oh yes, tch, tch, tch. 

zorba: another loose-living gastropod is the periwinkle. this shameless little libertine with its characteristic ventral locomotion ... is 

zorba: not 

zorba: the marrying kind: 'anywhere anytime' is its motto. up with the shell and they're at it. 

mrs jalin: how about the lamellibranchs? 

zorba: i'm coming to them ... the great scallop 

zorba: this latter is a right whore, a harlot, a trollop, a cynical bed-hopping firm-breasted rabelaisian bit of sea food that makes fanny hill look like a dead pope... and finally among the lamellibranch bivalves, that most depraved of the whole sub-species - the whelk. the whelk is nothing but a homosexual of the worst kind. this gay boy of the gastropods, this queer crustacean, this mincing mollusc, this screaming, prancing, limp-wristed queen of the deep makes me sick. 

mrs jalin: have you got one? 

zorba: here! 

mrs jalin: let's kill it. disgusting. 

mr jalin: that'll teach it. well thank you for a very interesting programme. 

zorba: oh, not at all. thank you. 

mrs jalin: yes, that was very nice. 

zorba: thank you. 

mrs jalin: oh, thank you. 

presenter: and now a word from the man in the... 

loony: ...street. 

none: animation: 

<scene the minister for not listening to people>

newsreader: the minister for not listening to people toured batley today to investigate allegations of victimization in home-loan improvement grants, made last week 

newsreader: broke down the door to the serving hatch, painted the spare room and next weekend i think they'll be able to make a start on the boy's bedroom, while amy and roger, up in london for a few days, go to see the mysterious mr grenville. 

<scene tuesday documentary/children's story/party political broadcast>

none: superimposed caption: 'today in parliament has now become the classic serial' 

newsreader: he in turn has been revealed by d'arcy as something less than an honest man. sybil feels once again a resurgence of her old affection and she and balreau return to her little house in clermont-ferrand, the kind of two-up, two-down house that most french workers throughout the european community are living in today. 

none: superimposed caption: 'the classic serial has now become the tuesday documentary' 

presenter: the ease of construction, using on-site prefabrication facilities 

presenter: makes cheap housing a reality. the walls of these houses are lined with prestressed asbestos which keeps the house warm and snuggly and ever so safe from the big bad rabbit, who can scratch and scratch for all he's worth, but he just can't get into porky's house. 

none: superimposed caption: 'the tuesday documentary has become "children's story" ' 

presenter: where is porky? here he is. what a funny little chap. 

none: superimposed caption: 'the children's story has gone back into the tuesday documentary' 

presenter: ... are dim reminders of the days before a new-found affluence swept the land, 

presenter: making it clean and tidy and making all the shops full of nice things, lovely choo-choo trains ... 

none: superimposed caption: 'no it hasn't' 

presenter: . .. and toys and shiny cars that go brrm, brrm, brrm, 

presenter: and nobody saw the big bad rabbit ever again. 

politician: but you know it's always very easy to blame the big bad rabbit... 

none: superimposed caption: 'now it's become a party political broadcast!' 

politician: ...when by-elections are going against the government, 

politician: do you think we should really be blaming ourselves? 

none: superimposed caption: 'no, sorry, "'religion today" ' 

politician: because you know, that's where we really ought to start looking. 

<scene expedition to lake pahoe>

interviewer: hello. all the activity you can see in progress here is part of the intricate... aah! 

interviewer: sir jane, what is the purpose of your expedition? 

sir jane: well this is a completely uncharted lake with like hitherto unclassified marine life man, so the whole scene's wide open for a scientific exploration. 

interviewer: one can see the immense amount of preparation involved. have there been many difficulties in setting up this venture? 

sir jane: well the real hang-up was with the bread man but when the top brass pigs came through we got it together in a couple of moons. commodore betty grable, who's a real sub-aqua head, has got it together diving wise and like the whole gig's been a real gas man. 

interviewer: lieutenant commander dorothy lamour. 

parrot: pieces of eight. 

interviewer: dorothy you're in charge of security and liason for this operation. 

dorothy lamour: right on. 

interviewer: you've kept this all rather hush-hush so far shipmate. 

dorothy lamour: yeah, it's been really heavy man with all these freaks from the fascist press trying to blow the whole scene. 

interviewer: argh! a tranquillizing dart fired by the cowardly bbc health department dogs ... they've done filled me full of chlorpromazine damn! 

second interviewer: i'm sorry about my colleague's rather unconventional behaviour. 

sir jane: the navy's out of sight man come together with the rn it's really something other than else. 

second interviewer: hello. i'm sorry about my colleague's rather unconventional behaviour just now, but things haven't been too easy for him recently, trouble at home, rather confidential so i can't give you all the details... interesting though they are... three bottles of rum with his weetabix, and so on, anyway... apparently the girl wasn't even ... anyway the activity you see behind me... it's the mother i feel sorry for. i'll start again. the activity you see behind me is part of the preparations for the new naval expedition to lake pahoe. the man in charge of this expedition is vice admiral sir john cunningham. sir john, hello there. 

sir john: ah, hello. well first of all i'd like to apologize for the behaviour of certain of my colleagues you may have seen earlier, but they are from broken homes, circus families and so on and they are in no way representative of the new modern improved british navy. they are a small vociferous minority; and may i take this opportunity of emphasizing that there is no cannibalism in the british navy. absolutely none, and when i say none, i mean there is a certain amount, more than we are prepared to admit, but all new ratings are warned that if they wake up in the morning and find any toothmarks at all anywhere on their bodies, they're to tell me immediately so that i can immediately take every measure to hush the whole thing up. and, finally, necrophilia is right out. 

sir john: now, this expedition is primarily to investigate reports of cannibalism and necrophilia in... this expedition is primarily to investigate reports of unusual marine life in the as yet uncharted lake pahoe. 

second interviewer: and where exactly is the lake? 

sir john: er 22a, runcorn avenue, i think. yes, that's right, 22a. 

second interviewer: runcorn avenue? 

sir john: yes, it's just by blenheim crescent... do you know it? 

second interviewer: you mean it's in an ordinary street? 

sir john: of course it's not an ordinary street! it's got a lake in it! 

second interviewer: yes but i... 

sir john: look, how many streets do you know that have got lakes in them? 

second interviewer: but you mean... is it very large? 

sir john: of 

sir john: course 

sir john: jenkins ... no! 

second interviewer: i'm now standing in runcorn avenue. sir john ... where exactly is the lake? 

sir john: er, well let's see, that's 18... that's 20 so this must be the one. 

second interviewer: er, excuse me... 

sir john: yes, that's the one all right. 

second interviewer: but it's an ordinary house. 

sir john: look, i'm getting pretty irritated with this line of questioning. 

second interviewer: but it doesn't even look like a lake... 

sir john: look, your whole approach since this interview started has been to mock the navy. when i think that it was for the likes of you that i had both my legs blown off... 

second interviewer: you haven't had both your legs blown off! 

sir john: i was talking metaphorically you fool. jenkins - put that down. 

sir john: right, is the equipment ready? 

rating: diving equipment all ready man. 

sir john: right. now quite simply the approach to lake pahoe is up the steps, and then we come to the shores of the lake. now, i'm going to press the bell just to see if there's anyone in. 

man: hello? 

sir john: good morning - i'm looking for a lake pahoe. 

man: there's a mr padgett. 

sir john: no, no a 

sir john: lake 

sir john: . 

man: there's no lake here, mate. this is runcorn avenue. what's the camera doing? 

man: he's looking for a lake. 

sir john: lake pahoe. 

woman: oh, you want downstairs, 22a the basement. 

sir john: ah! thank you very much. good morning. come on men, downstairs. 

second interviewer: were you successful, sir john? 

sir john: it's in the basement. 

second interviewer: in the basement? 

second interviewer: eugh! 

sir john: hello. 

woman: ooooh. i think it's someone about the damp. 

man: tell 'em about the bleeding rats, too. 

woman: i'll go 

woman: yes? 

sir john: good morning, is this lake pahoe? 

woman: well, i don't know about that, but it's bleeding damp. are you from the council? 

sir john: no. we are the official british naval expedition to this lake. may we come in? 

woman: hang on. 

man: bloody sharks. 

woman: get in. 

sir john: well um... that would appear to be the end of the expedition. 

<scene the silliest interview we've ever had>

interviewer: the magna carta - was it a document signed at runnymede in 1215 by king john pledging independence to the english barons, or was it a piece of chewing gum on a bedspread in dorset? the latter idea is the brainchild of a man new to the field of historical research. mr badger, why - why are you on this programme? 

badger: well, i think i can answer this question most successfully in mime. 

interviewer: but why dorset? 

badger: well, i have for a long time been suffering from a species of brain injury which i incurred during the rigours of childbirth, and i'd like to conclude by putting my finger up my nose. 

interviewer: mr badger, i think you're the silliest person we've ever had on this programme, and so i'm going to ask you to have dinner with me. 

<scene the silliest sketch we've ever done>

none: caption: 'later the same sketch' 

badger: my wife maureen ran off with a bottle of bell's whisky during the aberdeen versus raith rovers match which ended in a goalless draw. robson particularly, in goal, had a magnificent first half, his fine positional sense preventing the build-up of any severe pressure on the suspect aberdeen defense. mcloughlan missed an easy chance to clinch the game towards the final whistle but raith must be well satisfied with their point. 

interviewer: do please go on. this is the least fascinating conversation i've ever had. 

waiter: would you like to order sir? 

interviewer: yes, mr badger, what would you like to start with? 

badger: er, i'll have a whisky to start with. 

waiter: for first course, sir? 

badger: aye. 

waiter: and for main course, sir? 

badger: i'll have a whisky for main course and i'll follow that with a whisky for pudding. 

waiter: yes sir, and what would you like with it, sir? a whisky? 

badger: no, a bottle of wine. 

waiter: fine, sir, he said between clenched teeth knowing full well it was a most unrewarding part. 

interviewer: this is the silliest sketch i've ever been in. 

badger: shall we stop it? 

interviewer: yeah, all right. 

none: caption: 'the end' 

none: credits 

<scene >

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

voice over: monty python's flying circus. 

<scene biggles dictates a letter>

voice over: the adventures of biggles. part one - biggles dictates a letter. 

biggles: miss bladder, take a letter. 

secretary: yes, señor biggles. 

biggles: don't call me señor! i'm not a spanish person. you must call me mr biggles, or group captain biggles or mary biggles if i'm dressed as my wife, but never señor. 

secretary: sorry. 

biggles: i've never even been to spain. 

secretary: you went to ibiza last year. 

biggles: that's still not grounds for calling me señor, or don beeg-les for that matter. right, dear king haakon... 

secretary: of norway, is that? 

biggles: just put down what i say. 

secretary: do i put that down? 

biggles: of course you don't put that down. 

secretary: well what about that? 

biggles: look. 

biggles: dictating. 

biggles: what? 

biggles: read that back. 

secretary: dear king haakon, i am not dictating what? 

biggles: no, no, no, you loopy brothel inmate. 

secretary: i've had enough of this. i am not a courtesan. 

biggles: oh, oh, 'courtesan', oh aren't we grand. harlot's not good enough for us eh? paramour, concubine, fille de joie. that's what we are not. well listen to me my fine fellow, you are a bit of tail, that's what you are. 

secretary: i am not, you demented fictional character. 

biggles: algy says you are. he says you're no better than you should be. 

secretary: and how would 

secretary: he 

secretary: know? 

biggles: and just what do you mean by that? are you calling my old fictional comrade-in-arms a fairy? 

secretary: fairy! poof's not good enough for algy, is it? he's got to be a bleedin' fairy. mincing old raf queen. 

biggles: algy, i have to see you. 

algy: right ho. 

algy: what ho everyone. 

biggles: are you gay? 

algy: i should bally well say so, old fruit. 

biggles: ugh! 

secretary: what? 

biggles: rhyming slang - ginger beer. 

secretary: oh. 

biggles: ginger. 

ginger: hello, sweetie. 

biggles: i have to see you. 

ginger: yes, biggles? 

biggles: are you a poof 

ginger: i should say not. 

biggles: thank god for that. good lad. 

biggles: dear princess margaret. 

biggles: get back in the cupboard you pantomimetic royal person. 

loony: lemon curry? 

biggles: dear real princess margaret, thank you for the eels, full stop. they were absolutely delicious and unmistakably regal, full stop. sorry to mench but if you've finished with the hairdryer could you pop it in the post? yours fictionally biggles, oh, ps see you at the saxe-coburgs' canasta evening. 

biggles: that should puzzle her. 

biggles: silence, naughty lady of the night! 

voice over: next week part two - 'biggles flies undone'. 

voice over: meanwhile not very far away. 

<scene climbing the north face of the uxbridge road>

voice over: climbing. the world's loneliest sport, where hardship and philosophy go hand in glove. and here, another british expedition, attempting to be the first man to successfully climb the north face of the uxbridge road. 

voice over: this four-man rope has been climbing tremendously. bbc cameras were there to film every inch. 

chris: well they've spent a good night in there last night in preparation for the final assault today. the leader of the expedition is twenty-nine-year-old bert tagg - a local headmaster and mother of three. 

interviewer: bert. how's it going? 

bert: well, it's a bit gripping is this, chris. 

bert: damn ... i'm doing it, er, by laying back on this gutter so i'm kind of guttering and laying back at the same time, and philosophizing. 

interviewer: bert, some people say this is crazy. 

bert: aye, well but they said crippen was crazy didn't they? 

interviewer: crippen 

interviewer: was 

interviewer: crazy. 

bert: oh, well there you are then. 

viking: lemon curry? 

bert: now you see he's putting a peg down there because i'm quite a way up now, and if i come unstuck here i go down quite a long way. 

interviewer: such quiet courage is typical of the way these brave chaps shrug off danger. like it or not, you've got to admire the skill that goes into it. 

<scene lifeboat>

none: cut to an ordinary kitchen. a mrs pinnet type lady with long apron and headscarf is stuffing a chicken with various unlikely objects. the door opens. sound of rain, wind and storm outside. a liftboatman enters, soaked to the skin. he shuts the door. 

first lifeboatman: oh it's terrible up on deck. 

mrs neves: up on deck? 

first lifeboatman: yes on deck. it's diabolical weather. 

mrs neves: what deck, dear? 

first lifeboatman: the deck, the deck of the lifeboat. 

mrs neves: this isn't a lifeboat, dear. this is 24, parker street. 

first lifeboatman: this is the newhaven lifeboat. 

mrs neves: no it's not, dear. 

first lifeboatman: you're right. this isn't a lifeboat at all. 

mrs neves: no, i wouldn't live here if it was, 

first lifeboatman: do you mind if i sit down for a minute and collect my wits? 

mrs neves: no, you do that, i'll make you a nice cup of tea. 

first lifeboatman: thanks very much. 

second lifeboatman: oooh, it's a wild night up top. 

third lifeboatman: your turn on deck soon, charlie. 

first lifeboatman: it's not a lifeboat, frank. 

third lifeboatman: what? 

second lifeboatman: what do you mean? 

first lifeboatman: it's not a lifeboat. it's this lady's house. 

<scene old lady snoopers>

enid: who's that shouting? 

gladys: it's a man outside number 24. 

enid: try it on the five inch, gladys. 

gladys: i can't. i've got that fixed on the baileys at number 13. their new lodger moves in today. 

enid: all fight, hold 13 on the five-inch and transfer the cartwrights to the digital scanner. 

enid: hold on, mrs pettigrew's coming back from the doctor's. 

gladys: all right, bring her up on two. what's the duration reading on the oscillator? 

enid: 48.47. 

gladys: well that's a long time for someone who's just had a routine checkup. 

enid: yes, her pulse rate's 146! 

gladys: zoom in on the 16mm and hold her, enid. 

enid: roger, gladys. 

gladys: i'll try and get her on the twelve-inch. 

gladys: thank you, love. 

first lifeboatman: yes, it's one of those new self-righting models. newhaven was about the first place in the country to get one. 

second lifeboatman: what's the displacement on one of them jobs then? 

first lifeboatman: oh it's about 140-150 per square inch. 

mrs neves: who's for fruit cake? 

all: oh yes, please, please. 

mrs neves: yes, right, macaroons, that's two dozen fruit cakes, half a dozen macaroons. right ho. won't be a jiffy then. 

mrs neves: yoohoo! mrs edwards! 

mrs edwards: hello. 

mrs neves: hello, two dozen fruit cakes and half a dozen macaroons. 

mrs edwards: sorry love, no macaroons. how about a nice vanilla sponge? 

mrs neves: yes, that'll be lovely. 

mrs edwards: right ho. 

mrs edwards: hello, captain smith? 

voice: hallooooo! 

mrs edwards: kup kakes to starboard. 

voice: coming. 

mrs neves: i'll pay you at the end of the week, all right? 

mrs edwards: ok, right ho. 

mrs neves: here; it's the 

mrs neves: ark royal 

mrs neves: , doris. have you got their rock buns ready? 

mrs edwards: hang on! 

doris: here we are, five for them and five for hms 

doris: eagle 

doris: . 

mrs edwards: right ho.. 

mrs edwards: yes? 

officer: hms 

officer: defiant 

officer: ? two set teas please. 

mrs edwards: two set teas, doris. forty-eight pence. there we are, thank you. 

officer: by the way, do you do lunches? 

mrs edwards: no, morning coffee and teas only. 

officer: right ho. 

<scene 'storage jars'>

none: caption: 'storage jars' 

presenter: good evening and welcome to another edition of 'storage jars'. on tonight's programme mikos antoniarkis, the greek rebel leader who seized power in athens this morning, tells us what he keeps in storage jars. 

presenter: and closer to home, the first dramatic pictures of the mass jail-break near the storage jar factory in maidenhead. all this and more in 'storage jars'! 

rodgers: this is la paz, bolivia, behind me you can hear the thud of mortars and the high-pitched whine of rockets, as the battle for control of this volatile republic shakes the foundations of this old city. 

rodgers: here the largest size is used for rice and for mangoes - a big local crop. unlike most revolutionary south american states they've an intermediary size in between the 2 lb and 5 lb jars. this gives this poor but proud people a useful jar for apricots, plums and stock cubes. the smallest jar - this little 2oz jar, for sweets, chocolates and even little shallots. no longer used in the west it remains here as an unspoken monument to the days when la paz knew better times. ronald rodgers, 'storage jars', la paz. 

none: animation: 

<scene the show so far>

mr tussaud: hello, the, er, show so far...well it all started with the organist losing all his clothes as he sat down at the organ, and after this had happened and we had seen the titles of the show, we saw biggles dictating a letter to his secretary, who thought he was spanish, and whom he referred to as a harlot and a woman of the night, although she preferred to be called a courtesan. then we saw some people trying to climb a road in uxbridge. and then there were some cartoons and then some lifeboatmen came into a woman's sitting room and after a bit the woman went out to buy some cakes on a lifeboat and then a naval officer jumped into the sea. then we saw a man telling us about storage jars from bolivia, then there were some more cartoons and a man told us about what happened on the show so far and a great hammer came down and hit him on the head. 

it's man: lemon curry? 

<scene cheese shop>

wensleydale: good morning, sir. 

mousebender: good morning. i was sitting in the public library on thurmon street just now, skimming through 'rogue herries' by horace walpole, when suddenly i came over all peckish. 

wensleydale: peckish, sir? 

mousebender: esurient. 

wensleydale: eh? 

mousebender: eee i were all hungry, like! 

wensleydale: oh, hungry. 

wensleydale: come again. 

mousebender: i want to buy some cheese. 

wensleydale: oh, i thought you were complaining about the music! 

mousebender: heaven forbid. i am one who delights in all manifestations of the terpsichorean muse. 

wensleydale: sorry? 

mousebender: i like a nice dance - you're forced to. 

viking: anyway. 

wensleydale: who said that? 

mousebender: now my good man, some cheese, please. 

wensleydale: yes certainly, sir. what would you like? 

mousebender: well, how about a little red leicester. 

wensleydale: i'm, afraid we're fresh out of red leicester, sir. 

mousebender: oh, never mind. how are you on tilsit? 

wensleydale: never at the end of the week, sir. always get it fresh first thing on monday. 

mousebender: tish tish. no matter. well, four ounces of caerphilly, then, if you please, stout yeoman. 

wensleydale: ah well, it's been on order for two weeks, sir, i was expecting it this morning. 

mousebender: yes, it's not my day, is it? er, bel paese? 

wensleydale: sorry. 

mousebender: red windsor? 

wensleydale: normally, sir, yes, but today the van broke down. 

mousebender: ah. stilton? 

mousebender: gruyere? emmental? 

wensleydale: no. 

mousebender: any norwegian jarlsberger? 

mousebender: liptauer? 

mousebender: lancashire? 

mousebender: white stilton? 

mousebender: danish blue? 

mousebender: double gloucester? 

wensleydale: ...no. 

mousebender: cheshire? 

mousebender: any dorset blue vinney? 

mousebender: brie, roquefort, pont-l'évêque, port salut, savoyard, saint-paulin, carre-de-l'est, boursin, bresse-bleu, perle de champagne, camenbert? 

wensleydale: ah! we do have some camembert, sir. 

mousebender: you do! excellent. 

wensleydale: it's a bit runny, sir. 

mousebender: oh, i like it runny. 

wensleydale: well as a matter of fact it's 

wensleydale: very 

wensleydale: runny, sir. 

mousebender: no matter. no matter. hand over le fromage de la belle france qui s'apelle camembert, s'il vous plaît. 

wensleydale: i think it's runnier than you like it, sir. 

mousebender: i don't care how excrementally runny it is. hand it over with all speed. 

wensleydale: yes, sir. 

wensleydale: oh... 

mousebender: what? 

wensleydale: the cat's eaten it. 

mousebender: has he? 

wensleydale: she, sir. 

mousebender: gouda? 

mousebender: edam? 

mousebender: caithness? 

mousebender: smoked austrian? 

mousebender: sage darby? 

wensleydale: no, sir. 

mousebender: you do have some cheese, do you? 

wensleydale: certainly, sir. it's a cheese shop, sir. we've got... 

mousebender: no, no, no, don't tell me. i'm keen to guess. 

wensleydale: fair enough. 

mousebender: wensleydale. 

wensleydale: yes, sir? 

mousebender: splendid. well, i'll have some of that then, please. 

wensleydale: oh, i'm sorry sir, i thought you were reffering to me, mr wensleydale. 

mousebender: gorgonzola? 

mousebender: parmesan? 

mousebender: mozzarella? 

mousebender: pippo crème? 

mousebender: any danish fynbo? 

mousebender: czechoslovakian sheep's milk cheese? 

mousebender: venezuelan beaver cheese? 

wensleydale: not today sir, no. 

mousebender: well let's keep it simple, how about cheddar? 

wensleydale: well, i'm afraid we don't get much call for it around these parts. 

mousebender: not call for it? it's the single most popular cheese in the world! 

wensleydale: not round these parts, sir. 

mousebender: and pray what is the most popular cheese round these parts? 

wensleydale: ilchester, sir. 

mousebender: i see. 

wensleydale: yes, sir. it's quite staggeringly popular in the manor, squire. 

mousebender: is it. 

wensleydale: yes sir, it's our number-one seller. 

wensleydale: yes sir. 

mousebender: ilchester, eh? 

wensleydale: right. 

mousebender: ok, i'm game. have you got any, he asked, expecting the answer no? 

wensleydale: i'll have a look, sir...nnnnnnooooooooo. 

mousebender: it's not much of a cheese shop really, is it? 

wensleydale: finest in the district, sir. 

mousebender: and what leads you to that conclusion? 

wensleydale: well, it's so clean. 

mousebender: well, it's certainly uncontaminated by cheese. 

wensleydale: you haven't asked me about limberger, sir. 

mousebender: is it worth it? 

wensleydale: could be. 

mousebender: ok, have you... 

mousebender: will you shut that bloody dancing up! 

wensleydale: told you so. 

mousebender: have you got any limberger? 

mousebender: no, that figures. it was pretty predictable, really. it was an act of purest optimism to pose the question in the first place. tell me something, do you have any cheese at all? 

mousebender: now i'm going to ask you that question once more, and if you say 'no' i'm going to shoot you through the head. now, do you have any cheese at all? 

mousebender: what a senseless waste of human life. 

<scene philip jenkinson on cheese westerns>

none: caption: 'rogue cheddar (1967)' 

none: caption: 'fin' 

philip jenkinson: horace walpole's 'rogue cheddar', 

philip jenkinson: one of the first of the cheese westerns to be later followed by 'gunfight at gruyère corral', 'ilchester 73', and 'the cheese who shot liberty valence'. while i'm on the subject of westerns, i want to take a closer look at one of my favourite film directors, sam peckinpah, the expatriate from fresno, california. 

none: superimposed caption: 'get on with it' 

philip jenkinson: in his earliest films, 'major dundee', 

none: superimposed caption: 'and stop sniffing' 

philip jenkinson: 'the wild bunch' and 'straw dogs' he showed his predilection for the utterly truthful and very sexually arousing portrayal of violence 

none: superimposed caption: 'will you stop sniffing' 

philip jenkinson: in his latest film peckinpah has moved into the calmer and more lyrical waters of julian slade's, 'salad days'. 

<scene sam peckinpah's 'salad days'>

none: superimposed caption: 'salad days (1971) director sam peckinpah' 

lionel: hello everybody. 

all: hello lionel. 

lionel: i say what a simply super day. 

all: gosh yes. 

woman: it's so, you know, sunny. 

lionel: yes isn't it? i say anyone for tennis? 

julian: oh super! 

charles: what fun. 

julian: i say, lionel, catch. 

lionel: oh gosh. 

philip jenkinson: pretty strong meat there from 

philip jenkinson: sam peckinpah. 

<scene apology>

voice over: 'the bbc would like to apologize to everyone in the world for the last item. it was disgusting and bad and thoroughly disobedient and please don't bother to phone up because we know it was very tasteless, but they didn't really mean it and they do all come from broken homes and have very unhappy personal lives, especially eric. anyway, they're really very nice people underneath and very warm in the traditional show business way and please don't write in either because the bbc is going through an unhappy phase at the moment - what with its father dying and the mortgage and bbc 2 going out with men.' 

voice over: : 'the bbc would like to deny the last apology. it is very happy at home and bbc 2 is bound to go through this phase, so from all of us here good night, sleep well, and have an absolutely super day tomorrow, kiss, kiss.' 

<scene the news with richard baker>

richard baker: we've just heard that an explosion in the kitchens of the house of lords has resulted in the breakage of seventeen storage jars. police ruled out foul play. 

<scene seashore interlude film>

none: superimposed caption: 'interlude' 

announcer: look there's not really a great deal of point in your, sort of hanging on at your end, because i'm afraid there aren't any more jokes or anything. 

<scene mr pither>

none: superimposed caption: 'the cycling tour' 

pither: august 18th. fell off near bovey tracey. the pump caught in my trouser leg. 

pither: the pump caught in my trouser leg, and my sandwiches were badly crushed. 

proprietor: 35p please. 

pither: these sandwiches, however, were an excellent substitute. 

driver: give us ten woods, barney. 

pither: hello! 

pither: ah! i have only a fifty. do you have change? 

proprietor: well i'll have a look, but i may have to go to the bank. 

pither: i'm most awfully sorry. 

proprietor: 15p. 

pither: oh, what a stroke of luck. well, all the very best. 

pither: and thank you again for the excellent banana and cheese delicacy. 

pither: august 23rd. fell off near budleigh salterton. 

pither: ...and the pump caught in my trouser leg... 

pither: that shouldn't really happen to a self-sealing container, should it? what do you keep your hard-boiled eggs in? 

pither: i think in future i shall lash them to the handlebars with adhesive tape...this should obviate a recurrence of the same problem...well i can't stop here all day...i'm on a cycling tour of north cornwall. must be off. 

pither: august 26th. fell off near ottery st mary. the pump caught in my trouser leg. decided to wear short trousers from now on. 

pither: fell off near tiverton. perhaps a shorter pump is the answer. 

pither: excuse me, madam, i wonder if you could tell me of a good bicycle shop in this village, where i could find either a means of adapting my present pump, or failing that, purchase a replacement? 

old lady: there's only one shop here. 

pither: what a stroke of luck. now perhaps cycling will become less precarious. 

doctor: yes? (a nurse puts her head round the door) 

nurse: a mr pither to see you, doctor. his bicycle pump got caught in his sock. 

doctor: oh, thank you nurse, show him in please. 

nurse: this way, please. 

doctor: morning. 

pither: oh, a very good morning to you too, doctor 

doctor: ah, i understand you had an accident? 

pither: yes, my pump got... 

doctor: ...caught in your sock. 

pither: absolutely. yes. my fruit cake was damaged on one side. 

doctor: well... 

pither: it's got grit all over it. 

doctor: well now, are you in pain? 

pither: oh, heavens no. 

doctor: ah well, where were you hurt? 

pither: oh, fortunately, i escaped without injury. 

doctor: well what is the trouble? 

pither: please, could you tell me the way to iddesleigh? 

doctor: i'm a doctor, you know. 

pither: oh yes, absolutely. normally i would have asked a policeman or a minister of the church, but finding no one available, i thought it better to consult a man with some professional qualifications, rather than rely on the possibly confused testimony of a passer-by. 

doctor: oh alright. 

doctor: take this to a chemist. 

pither: thank you. 

pither: september 2nd. did not fall off outside iddesley. 

pither: fell off in tavistock. 

pither: my foot caught in my trouser leg and that's how the bottle broke. 

girl: tell her today, you could ring her. 

man: i can't. i can't. 

pither: i said you'd never guess. 

man: sixteen years we've been together. i can't just ring her up. 

girl: well, if you can't do it now, you never will. 

pither: do you like tizer? 

man: what? no. no. 

girl: do you want me or not, james? it's your decision. 

pither: i suppose it is still available in this area, is it? 

girl: do you want me or not, james? 

man: what? 

pither: tizer. 

girl: yes or no. 

pither: is it still available in this area? 

man: i don't know. 

girl: i see, in that case it's goodbye for ever, james. 

man: no! i mean yes! 

pither: oh it is, is it? 

man: no. 

girl: oh! you never could make up your mind. 

man: i can.... i have.... 

girl: goodbye james. 

man: no wait, lucille! 

pither: does your lovely daughter like tizer? eh? 

man: lucille! 

pither: wouldn't mind buying her a bottle of tizer.... if it's available in this area, that is. 

man: would you like me to show you the door? 

pither: oh, that's extremely kind of you, but i saw it on the way in. 

man: you stupid, interfering little rat. 

pither: oh! the very words of the garage mechanic in bude! 

pither: i had just fallen off my bicycle, this is most kind of you, and my lemon curd tartlet had... 

man: damn your lemon curd tartlet! 

pither: just had a chat with your dad. 

<scene accidents involving food>

pither: my rubber instep caught on the rear mudguard stanchion and... 

gulliver: really? and what happened to the corned beef rolls? 

pither: the corned beef rolls squashed out of all...here, how did you know about the corned beef rolls? 

gulliver: i noticed them - or what remained of them - in the road. i noticed also that the lemon curd tart had sustained some superficial damage. 

pither: that's right. the curd had become... 

gulliver: detached from the pastry base. 

pither: absolutely right, yes. 

gulliver: otherwise the contents of the sandwich box were relatively unharmed, although i detected small particles of bitumen in the chocolate kup kakes. 

pither: but they were wrapped in foil! 

gulliver: not the hard chocolate top, i'm afraid. 

pither: oh, that's the bit i like. 

gulliver: the sausage roll, the crisps and ginger bisquit were unscathed. 

pither: how do you know so much about cycling? 

gulliver: well, i'm making a special study of accidents involving food. 

pither: really? 

gulliver: yes, do you know that in our laboratories, we have developed a cheese sandwich that can withstand an impact of 4,000 pounds per square inch? 

pither: good heavens! 

gulliver: amazing, isn't it? we have also developed a tomato which can eject itself when an accident is imminent. 

pither: even if it's inside an egg and tomato roll? 

gulliver: anywhere! even if it's in your stomach, and it senses an accident it will come up your throat and out of the window. do you realise what this means? 

pither: safer food? 

gulliver: exactly! no longer will food be squashed, crushed and damaged, by the ignorance and stupidity of the driver! 

gulliver: whole picnics will be built to withstand the most enormous forces! snacks will be safer than ever! an simple pot of salad dressing, treated in our laboratories, has been subjected to the impact of a 4,000 pound steam hammer every day for the last sixteen years and has it broken? 

pither: er....well... 

gulliver: yes, of course it has...but there are other ideas - the safety straps for sardines for instance. 

pither: here, that tomato just ejected itself. 

gulliver: really? 

<scene clodagh rodgers>

pither: what a strange turn this cycling tour has taken. mr gulliver appears to have lost his memory and far from being interested in safer food is now convinced that he is clodagh rogers, the young girl singer. i am taking him for medical attention. 

pither: is this the casualty department? 

nurse: yes, that's right. 

nurse: and what can i do for you? 

pither: i am at present on a cycling tour of the north cornwall area taking in bude and... 

nurse: could i have your name please? 

pither: ah, my name is pither. 

nurse: what? 

pither: p-i-t-h-e-r ...as in brotherhood, but with pi instead of the bro and no hood. 

nurse: i see... 

pither: i had just visited taunton... 

nurse: sh! 

pither: ...and was cycling north towards... 

nurse: yes, where were you injured? 

pither: just where the a397 ilfracombe road meets the... 

nurse: on your 

nurse: body 

nurse: ... 

pither: ah no... it's not i who was injured, it's my friend. 

nurse: tut... name? 

pither: pither. 

nurse: no, no, no, no. your friend's name. 

pither: oh, clodagh rogers... 

nurse: clodagh rogers!? 

pither: well only since about 4:30.... 

nurse: yes. i think you'd better talk to doctor wu... doctor! 

doctor: what? damn! 

nurse: aaaaaagh! 

doctor: now, what's the trouble? 

pither: i am on a cycling tour of... 

nurse: he 

nurse: thinks 

nurse: he's had an accident. 

pither: i have friend who, as a result of his injuries thinks he is clodagh rogers. 

doctor: he what? 

pither: well, what happened was... 

<scene trotsky>

pither: oh hello! 

gulliver: we cannot stay here. we must leave immediately. there is a ship in marseilles. 

pither: i did enjoy your song for europe, clodagh. 

gulliver: i have seen an agent in the town. my life is in danger. 

pither: danger, clodagh? 

gulliver: stalin has always hated me. 

pither: no one hates you, clodagh. 

gulliver: i will not let myself fall into the hands of these scum. 

pither: i think you should go and have a little lie down, my dear. there is a busy day tomorrow of concerts and promotional tours. 

gulliver: i. one of the founders of the greatest nation on earth. i! whom lenin has called his greatest friend. 

m. brun: taisez-vous. taisez-vous. 

pither: oh dear. 

gulliver: i! who have worked all my life that my people should live. 

m. brun: taisez-vous. qu'est-ce que le bruit? c'est impossible! 

pither: er... my name is pither. 

m. brun: oh... you are english? 

pither: er yes, that's right. i'm on a cycling tour of north cornwall, taking in bude... 

gulliver: i will not be defeated. i will return to my country to fight against this new tyranny! 

pither: this is clodagh rogers, the irish-born girl singer. 

mme. brun: mais oui - c'est clodagh rogers - 'jack-in-a-box'! 

mme. brun: genevieve! gerard! c'est clodagh rogers la fameuse chanteuse anglaise. 

gulliver: i will never surrender! i will never surrender!... 

genevieve: excusez-moi madame clodagh. ecrivez-vous votre nom dans mon livre des hommes célèbrites, s'il vous plait. là, au-dessous de denis compton. 

genevieve: maman! ce n'est pas la belle clodagh. 

mme. brun: quoi? 

genevieve: c'est trotsky le révolutionaire. 

m. brun: trotsky! 

mme. brun: mais trotsky ne chante pas. 

m. brun: il chante un peu. 

mme. brun: mais pas professionalement. qu'il pense de lenin. 

m. brun: ah! lenin!! quel chanteur: 'if i ruled the world'. 

gulliver: lenin. my friend. i come. 

pither: oh excuse her, she's not very well recently, pressure of work, laryngitis, you know... 

m. brun: et aussi monsieur kerensky avec le 'little white bull', eh? 

mme. brun: formidable. 

gulliver: lenin! i come! lenin! 

frenchman: je t'aime. 

<scene smolensk>

pither: after several days i succeeded in tracking down my friend mr gulliver on the outskirts of smolensk. 

military man: smolensk. 200 miles east of minsk. 200 north of kursk. 1500 miles west of omsk. 

pither: thank you. 

pither: anyway, as we were so far from home, and as mr gulliver, still believing himself to be trotsky, was very tired from haranguing the masses all the way from monte carlo, 

military man: monte carlo. 100 miles south of turin. 100 east of pisa. 500 miles west of bilbao. 

pither: thank you. i decided to check... 

pither: i decided to check... 

pither: no, sorry you go on. 

pither: i decided to check him into a hotel while i visited the british embassy to ask for help in returning to cornwall. 

pither: and so we registered at the smolensk young men's anti-christian association. 

military man: ymaca. corner of anti-semitic street and pogrom square. 

pither: no, not you. a single room for my friend please. 

desk clerk: yes, sir. bugged or unbugged? 

gulliver: i think i'd be happier with a bugged one. 

desk clerk: right, one bugged with bath. 

pither: well, just have a nice lie down, and i'll go to the embassy. 

desk clerk: trotsky! my lack of god, it's trotsky! 

gulliver: comrades. socialism is not a... 

<scene bingo-crazed chinese>

pither: excuse me. is this the british consulate? 

chinaman: yes yes... si si...that is correctment. yes... piccadilly circus, mini-skirt and joe lyons. 

pither: i wish to see the consul, please. 

chinaman: yes, yes, speakee speakee... me blitish consul. 

pither: oh! 

pither: you are rear admiral sir dudley compton? 

chinaman: no. he died. he have heart attack and fell out of window onto exploding bomb, and was killed in a shooting accident. i...i his how you say...succ...sussor. 

pither: oh, successor. 

chinaman: i'm his successor, mr atkinson. 

pither: oh. 

chinaman: would you like drinkee? or game bingo? 

pither: well.... a drink would be very nice. 

chinaman: mr. livingstone. go and get sake. 

livingstone: yes, boss. 

chinaman: how is tonblidge wells? how i long to see again walls of famous shakespeare-style theatre in stlatford-on-avon. 

pither: oh well, i'm a west country man myself, mr. atkinson. 

chinaman: oh texas - arizona - kit carson super scout. 

pither: no. no. west of england... cornwall. 

chinaman: coron... worll... 

pither: cornwall. 

chinaman: coronworl...oh yes know coronworl very well. went to school there, mother and father live there, ah yes. go many weekend parties and polo playing cards in blidge club. belong many clubs in coronworld. 

chinaman: ah, mr livingstone thank you, sake and bakewells tart. 

chinaman: well, chaps, buttocks up! 

pither: rather. 

chinaman: now then er... er... 

pither: ah, pither. 

chinaman: ah mr pither. we blitish here in smolensk velly intellested in cliket. 

pither: oh, cricket? 

chinaman: no, no...you not speak english velly wells. not clicket - clicket...clicketty click...clicket...housey housey...er, bingo. 

pither: bingo... 

chinaman: oh bingo...bingo...bingo. 

livingstone: bingo! bingo! 

chinaman: hsai! solly. our boys got velly excited. 

livingstone: bingo. 

chinaman: mr pither, perhaps you could put in a good word for so we could join a very smart bingo club in coronworl. 

pither: well, it's not really my line... 

chinaman: we all velly quiet at back, not say anything except shout 'housey! housey!' 

livingstone: housey! housey! 

chinaman: hi skwwati niyhi, keo t'sin feh t'sdung, hih watai bingo cards! 

livingstone: nihi watai bingo cards? 

chinaman: nihi watai! 

livingstone: ah so... 

chinaman: now then, mr pither, tell me which better - hackney star bingo or st. albans top rank suite? 

pither: well, i was hoping that you could help me and my friend to get back to england as...you see we're on a cycling tour of north cornwall... 

all: bingo, bingo, bingo... 

pither: is mr trotsky in his room, please? 

desk clerk: no. he has gone to moscow. 

military man: moscow. 1500 miles south of... 

desk clerk: shut up! 

pither: moscow! 

grip: come with us, please. 

pither: oh, who are you? 

bag: well we're not secret police anyway. 

wallet: that's for sure. 

grip: if anything we are ordinary soviet systems with no particular interest in politics. 

bag: none at all. come with us. 

pither: oh, where are you taking me? 

wallet: what do we tell him? 

grip: don't tell him any secrets. 

bag: agreed. 

grip: tell him anything except that we are taking him to moscow where trotsky is reunited with the central committee. 

wallet: we're taking you to a clambake. 

pither: oh a clambake! i've never been to one of those. 

grip: right, let's go. 

bag: who's giving the orders round here? 

grip: i am. i'm senior to you. 

bag: no, you're not. you're a greengrocer, i'm an insurance salesman. 

grip: greengrocers are senior to insurance salesmen. 

wallet: cool it. i'm an ice-cream salesmen and i am senior to both of you. 

bag: you're an ice-cream salesman? i thought you were a vetenarian. 

wallet: i got promoted. let's go. 

bag: taxi! 

taxi: yes. 

bag: drive us to moscow. 

taxi: i have no a cab. 

wallet: why not? 

taxi: i'm in the secret police. 

<scene 'russian 42nd international clambake'>

general: ...dostoievye useye tovarich trotsky borodina 

none: subtitle: 'this is the man who brought our beloved trotsky back to us' 

general: beluntanks dretsky mihai ovna isky mr reg pither. 

none: subtitle: 'first may i present mr pither from west of england' 

general: shi muska di scensand dravenka oblomov engleska solzhenitzhin. 

none: subtitle: 'forgive me if i continue in english in order to save time' 

general: and now, comrades, the greatest moment of the day, the moment when i ask you to welcome the return of one of russia's greatest heroes, creator of the red army, lenin's greatest friend, lev davidovich trotsky! 

gulliver: comrades. bolsheviks. friends of the revolution. i have returned. 

gulliver: i want an old-fashioned house with an old-fashioned fence, and an old-fashioned millionaire. 

pither: our friend mr gulliver was clearly undergoing another change of personality. 

general: so! you have duped us. you shall pay for this. guards, seize him. 

general: shall i seize him too? 

senior general: no, i think we'll have to keep him, he's going down well. 

general: he's more fun than he used to be. 

senior general: he's loosened up a lot. this is an old lenin number. 

pither: what a pleasant exercise yard. how friendly they were all being. 

officer: cigarettes? 

pither: oh, no thank you i don't smoke. 

pither: i looked around but could not see the target. 

officer: blindfold? 

pither: no thank you, no. 

officer: verschnitzen. 

messenger: nyet! nyet! nyet! 

officer: a telegram? 

pither: now i was really for it. 

officer: how could you miss? 

soldier: he moved. 

officer: shut up! go and practise. 

officer: i'm so sorry. do you mind waiting in your cell? 

pither: what a stroke of luck. my crunchie was totally intact. i settled down to a quick intermeal snack... 

officer: next time. definitely! 

officer: now then, how many of them have been injured? oh god... 

pither: as i lay dwon to the sound of the russian gentlemen practising their shooting, i realised i was in a bit of a pickle. my heart sank as i realised i should never see the okehampton by-pass again... 

mother: come on, dear. wake up dear. 

pither: mother! 

mother: come on dear. 

pither: so, it was all a dream. 

mother: no dear, 

mother: this 

mother: is the dream, you're still in the cell. 

officer: ok, we're going to have another try. i think we've got it now. my boys have been looking down the wrong bit, you see. 

pither: oh no, look, you've got to look down the bit there. 

officer: oh i thought you had to look down that bit. 

pither: no, no, you've got to look down that bit, or you won't hit anything. 

officer: alright, we'll give it a whirl. guards, seize him. 

officer: listen. you've got to look down this bit. 

compère: osledi osledi. 

compère: eartha kitt! 

gulliver: that turnip's certainly not safe. 

gulliver: oh no! mr pither! mr pither! 

gulliver: mr pither! mr pither! 

gulliver: mr pither! 

pither's voice: here! 

pither: gulliver. 

gulliver: pither! what a stroke of luck. 

pither: well yes and no. 

pither: phew, what an amazing escape. well goodbye, reginald. 

gulliver: goodbye, mr pither, and good luck with the tour! 

<scene bomb on plane>

first pilot: this is captain macpherson welcoming you aboard east scottish airways. you'll have had your tea. our destination is glasgow. there is no need to panic. 

badger: there's a bomb on board this plane, and i'll tell you where it is for a thousand pounds. 

second pilot: i don't believe you. 

badger: if you don't tell me where the bomb is... if i don't give you the money... unless you give me the bomb... 

stewardess: the money. 

badger: the money, thank you, pretty lady... the bomb will explode killing everybody. 

second pilot: including you. 

badger: i'll tell you where it is for a pound. 

second pilot: here's a pound. 

badger: i don't want scottish money. they've got the numbers. it can be traced. 

second pilot: one english pound. now where's the bomb? 

badger: i can't remember. 

second pilot: you've forgotten. 

badger: aye, you'd better have your pound back. oh... 

badger: fingerprints. 

first pilot: now where's the bomb? 

badger: ah, wait a tic, wait a tic. 

badger: i'll tell you where the bomb is for a pound. 

second pilot: it's in the luggage compartment. 

badger: right. here's your pound.. 

headphones: is this character giving you any trouble? 

first pilot: he's just ruined this sketch. 

second pilot: yes, absolutely. 

headphones: let's go on to the next one. 

badger: wait a tic, wait a tic. no. i won't ruin your sketch for a pound. 

second pilot: no, no. 

badger: 75p. 

headphones: next item. 

<scene a naked man>

nude man: well i see my role in it as, er, how can i put it best - the nude man - as sort of symbolizing the two separate strands of existence, the essential nudity of man... 

announcer: it's an interesting question. personally i rather adhere to the bergsonian idea of laughter as a social sanction against inflexible behaviour but... excuse me a moment... and now... 

it's man: it's... 

<scene ten seconds of sex>

voice over: 'and now the ten seconds of sex' 

voice over: 'all right, you can stop now' 

man in tails: well, we'll be continuing with 'monty python's flying circus' in just a moment 

man in tails: fr...o...m nnnnnnnnnnnn...now. 

<scene housing project built by characters from nineteenth-century english literature>

voice over: this new housing development in bristol is one of the most interesting in the country. it's using a variety of new techniques: shock-proof curtain-walling, a central high voltage, self-generated electricity source, and extruded acrylic fiberglass fitments. it's also the first major housing project in britain to be built entirely by characters from nineteenth-century english literature. 

voice over: here little nell, from dickens's 'old curiosity shop' fits new nylon syphons into the asbestos-lined ceilings ... 

voice over: arthur huntingdon, who helen graham married as a young girl, and whose shameless conduct eventually drove her back to her brother lawrence, in anne brontë's 'the tenant of wildfell hall' describes why it's unique. 

huntingdon: because sir, it is self-generating. because we have harnessed here in this box the very forces of life itself. the very forces that will send helen running back to beg forgiveness! 

voice over: the on-site building techniques involve the construction of twelve-foot walling blocks by a crowd of farmhands from 'tess of the d'urbervilles' supervised by the genial landlady, mrs jupp, from samuel butler's 'way of all flesh'. 

<scene m1 interchange built by characters from 'paradise lost'>

narrator: in contrast to the site in bristol, it's progress here on britain's first eighteen-level motorway interchange being built by characters from milton's 'paradise lost'... 

narrator: what went wrong here? 

foreman: well, no one really got on. satan didn't get on with eve ... er... archangel gabriel didn't get on with satan... nobody got on with the serpent, so now they have to work a rota: forces of good from ten till three, forces of evil three to six. 

<scene mystico and janet - flats built by hypnosis>

voice over: but even more modern building techniques are being used on an expanding new town site near peterborough; here the amazing mystico and janet can put up a block of flats by hypnosis in under a minute. 

voice over: the local council here have over fifty hypnosis-induced twenty-five story blocks, put up by el mystico and janet. i asked mr ken verybigliar the advantages of hypnosis compared to other building methods. 

mr verybigliar: well there is a considerable financial advantage in using the services of el mystico. a block, like mystico point here, 

mr verybigliar: would normally cost in the region of one-and-a-half million pounds. this was put up for five pounds and thirty bob for janet. 

voice over: but the obvious question is are they safe? 

architect: of course they're safe. there's absolutely no doubt about that. they are as strong, solid and as safe as any other building method in this country provided of course people believe in them. 

tenant: yes, we received a note from the council saying that if we ceased to believe in this building it would fall down. 

voice over: you don't mind living in a figment of another man's imagination? 

tenant: no, it's much better than where we used to live. 

voice over: where did you used to live? 

tenant: we had an eighteen-roomed villa overlooking nice. 

voice over: really, that sounds much better. 

tenant: oh yes - yes you're right. 

tenant: no, no, no, of course not. 

tenant: phew, that was close. 

voice over: but the construction of these vast new housing developments, providing homes for many thousands of people, is not the only project to which he has applied his many talents. he also has an infallible pools method, a school of spanish dancing and a car hire service. 

voice over: so mystico has his janet. 

voice over: yes. janet ... a quiet, shy girl. an honours graduate from harvard university, american junior sprint record holder, ex-world skating champion, nobel prize winner, architect, novelist and surgeon. the girl who helped crack the oppenheimer spy ring in 1947. she gave vital evidence to the senate narcotics commission in 1958. she also helped to convict the woman at the chemist's in 1961, and a year later 

voice over: was electrocuted for shouting in the corridor. 

<scene 'mortuary hour'>

none: superimposed caption: 'superintendent harry "boot-in" swalk' 

swalk: we admit that there have been outbreaks of hanging recently, but the police are trying to keep the situatuon under control. 

swalk: electrocutions are another big worry. but we hope that guillotining has been eradicated from the urban areas. and garrotting is confined almost entirely to luton. so if you have a friend in prison or under the sentence of death, be sure to let us know at this address. 

voice over: 'the police force, "sunnyview", yeovil, somerset' 

first radio voice: ... and premier chou en lai, who called it 'a major breakthrough'. twelve men were accidentally hanged at whitby assizes this afternoon whilst considering their verdict. this is one of the worst miscarriages of justice in britain since tuesday. 

dj voice: well it's thirteen minutes to the hour of nine-nine-nine, here on wonderful radio one-one-one! so if you're still lying in your big big bed, now is the time to get up out of it! we've got another thirteen hours of tip-top sounds here on wonderful radio one! 

dj voice: sorry about that ... so unless you have brain cells, or have completed the process of evolution, there's a wonderful day ahead! 

second radio voice: it's 9 o'clock and time for 'mortuary hour'. an hour of talks, tunes and downright tomfoolery for all those who work in mortuaries, introduced as usual by shirley bassey. 

second radio voice: . 

shirley: well, we're going to kick straight off this week with our mortuary quiz, so have your pens and pencils ready. 

wang: turn that radio off and look lively! 

battersby: oh, it's 'mortuary quiz', mr wang... 

wang: don't argue, battersby. 

mayor: ... this is our mortuary in here, your grace ... 

peer: i see, i see, i ... er ... i ... er ... i ... er ... i ... i can't think of anything to say about it. 

mayor: well, we're very proud of it here, sir. it's one of the most up to date in the country. 

peer: i see... yes... yes ... now... um... what... what... ah... ah... what is it? .... is it a power station? 

mayor: no, your grace, it's a mortuary. 

peer: i see ... i see ... good ... good ... good, good, good... 

mayor: but it has one of the most advanced thermostat control systems in the country, and it has computer-controlled storage facilities. 

peer: i see, i see ... i ... er... er... er... er ... i ... er ... i'm a good little doggie. 

mayor: i'm sorry, your grace? 

peer: i'm a good little dog. 

attendant: oh dear... 

mayor: perhaps we should postpone the visit? 

attendant: no, no, no - you see it's just that his brain is so tiny that the slightest movement can dislodge it 

attendant: your grace ... oh dear... it's rather like one of those games you play where you have to get the ball into the hole ... that's it. 

peer: ah! now then, excellent, excellent, excellent, excellent. now then ... ah ... what happens when the steel is poured into the ingots? 

mayor: perhaps we should go and have a look at the new showers? 

peer: yes... yes ... yes ... yes... yes rather jolly good... jolly good .. jolly good ... jolly good ... no fear... 

radio voice: well the answers were as follows: 1) the left hand, 2) no, 3) normal, 4) yes it has, in 1963 when a bird got caught in the mechanism. how did you get on? 

wang: turn that thing off! 

battersby: oh! it's 'mortuary dance time', mr wang! 

wang: never mind that, battersby, this is the big one. i've just had whitby police on the phone with twelve hangees... 

battersby: oh yes, i just heard about that on the radios ... 

wang: no, these are twelve different ones ... so shtoom. 

badger: i'll not interrupt this sketch for a pound. 

wang: what? 

badger: for one pound i'll leave this sketch totally uninterrupted. 

badger: fifty pence ... i'm prepared to negotiate a forty-pence deal. 

badger: for 35p i won't interrupt any of the next three items. 

wang: no, no, it's no good... 

badger: 25p. 

wang: no. 

badger: 10p and a kiss. 

none: animation: 

terry gilliam: sorry. 

<scene the olympic hide-and-seek final>

none: superimposed caption: 'final of the hide-and-seek second leg' 

commentator: hello, good afternoon and welcome to the second leg of the olympic final of the men's hide-and-seek here in the heart of britain's london. we'll be starting in just a couple of moments from now, and there you can see the two competitors francisco huron the paraguayan, who in this leg is the seeker 

commentator: our own don roberts from hinckley in leicestershire who, his trainer tells me, is at the height of his self-secreting form. and now in the first leg, which ended on wednesday, don succeeded in finding the paraguayan in the new world record time of 11 years, 2 months, 26 days, 9 hours, 3 minutes, 27.4 seconds, in a sweetshop in kilmarnock. and now they're under starter's orders. 

francisco: uno, dos, tres, quattro, cinque, seis, siete, ocho, nueve, diez ... 

francisco: ... trientay dos, trientay tres, trientay quattro... 

none: superimposed caption: '32, 33, 34' 

commentator: well don's off to a really great start there. remember the paraguayan has got 11 years, 2 months, 26 days, 9 hours... 

commentator: 3 minutes, 27.4 seconds to beat. 

francisco: neuvecian no nuevetay ocho, nuevecientas nuevente ye nueve, mil. 

francisco: coming! 

frank bough: well, we'll be taking you back there as soon as there are any developments. 

none: caption: 'six years later' 

frank bough: we've just heard that something is happening in the hide-and-seek final, so let's go straight over there. 

commentator: hello again, and welcome to madagascar, where francisco huron is seeking don roberts. and i've just been told that he has been told that he has been unofficially described as 'cold'. ah, wait a minute. 

commentator: i've just been told that huron has requested a plane ticket for budapest! so he's definitely getting warmer. so we'll be back again in just a few years. 

frank bough: really beginning to hot up now. 

none: caption: 'five years, two montbs and twenty-six days later' 

commentator: so here we are on the very last day of this fantastic final. huron now has less than twelve hours left to find british ace don roberts. early this morning he finished combing the outskirts of lisbon and now he seems to have staked everything on one final desperate seek here in the tagus valley. but roberts is over fifteen hundred miles away, and it's beginning to look all over, bar the shouting. the sands of time are running out for this delving dago, this savior of seek, perspicacious paraguayan. he's still desperately cold and it's beginning to look like another gold for britain. 

official: the official result of the world hide-and-seek, mr don roberts from hinckley, leicestershire, 11 years, 2 months, 26 days, 9 hours, 3 minutes, 27 seconds. mr francisco huron, paraguay, 11 years, a months, 26 days, 9 hours, 3 minutes, 27 seconds. the result - a tie. 

voice over: a tie! well what a fantastic result. well the replay will start tomorrow at 7.30 a.m. 

redcoat: well hello again .... nice to be back ... glad to see the series has been doing well. well now, sorry about mon-trerx. 

redcoat: that was a little item entitled hide-and-seek - very anarchic, very effective, not quite my cup of tea, but very nice for the younger people. well, the next item the boys have put together takes place in a sitting room. sorry it's just a sitting room, but the bank account's a bit low after the appallingly expensive production of 'clochmerle'... 

badger: this is a totally free interruption and no money has exchanged hands whatever. 

<scene the cheap-laughs>

mr robinson: sorry about that, darling... 

mrs robinson: gravy? 

mr robinson: yes please, dear. 

mrs robinson: oh dear, that'll be the cheap-laughs from next door. 

mr robinson: come in. 

mr cheap-laugh: no! just breathing heavily! 

mrs cheap-laugh: oh we just dropped in. 

mr robinson: would you like to come through... 

mr cheap-laugh: well goodnight and give us a kiss. 

mrs cheap-laugh: oh thank you very much for a very nice evening. 

mr cheap-laugh: after you, dear. 

mrs robinson: oh honestly dear, why do we always have to buy everything just because the cheap-laughs have one? 

badger: this is not an interruption at all. 

mr robinson: it's just neighbourliness dear, that's all... 

mrs robinson: i think we should try and lead our own lives from now on. 

mr robinson: can't you be serious for one moment? 

mr robinson: i'm sorry i was cross earlier. 

mrs robinson: oh that's all right, dear. it's just that i get so sick of always having to be like the cheap-laughs. 

mr robinson: well yes, from now on we'll be like ourselves. 

mrs robinson: oh roger... 

mr robinson: oh beatrice. 

<scene bull-fighting>

presenter: many people in this country are becoming increasingly worried about bull-fighting. they say it's not only cruel, vicious and immoral, but also blatantly unfair. the bull is heavy, violent, abusive and aggressive with four legs and great sharp teeth, whereas the bull-fighter is only a small, greasy spaniard. given this basic inequality what can be done to make bull-fighting safer? we asked brigadier arthur farquar-smith, chairman of the british well-basically club. 

<scene the british well-basically club>

brigadier: well, basically it's quite apparent that these little dago chappies have got it all wrong. they prance round the bull like a lot of bally night club dancers looking like the younger generation or a less smooth version of the lionel blair troupe, 

brigadier: what? ... oh... 

badger: i'll put the lights on again for a pound. 

<scene prices on the planet algon>

voice over: this is the planet algon, fifth world in the system of aldebaran, the red giant in the constellation of sagittarius. here an ordinary cup of drinking chocolate costs four million pounds, an immersion heater for the hot-water tank costs over six billion pounds, and a pair of split-crotch panties would be almost unobtainable. 

m'burke: well, our computers have been working all day to analyse the dramatic information that's come in from this first ever intergalactic probe, algon i ... 

m'burke: but we're now getting some live pictures through from algon! harry - perhaps you could talk us through them. 

harry: very little evidence of shopping facilities here .. there don't seem to be any large supermarkets. there may be some on-the-corner grocery stores behind those rocks, but it's difficult to tell from this angle. it does seem to suggest that most of the shopping here is by direct mail. 

none: superimposed teleprinter caption: 'digestive biscuits; £8,ooo,ooo per packet' 

m'burke: of course the big question that everyone's asking here is, what about those split-crotch parities? are they going to be unobtainable throughout the universe or merely on algon itself? professor? 

professor: we must remember that algon is over 75,000 miles wide. the probes come down to this area here and we're really only getting signals from a radius of only thirty or forty miles around the probe. split-crotch panties, or indeed any items of what we scientists call, 'sexy underwear' or 'erotic lingerie' may be much more plentiful on other parts of the planet. 

m'burke: professor, you were responsible for finding scanty-panties and golden goddess high-lift bras on planets which were never thought able to sustain life, and now that man has discovered a new galaxy do you think we're going to see underwear become even naughtier? 

professor: oh naughtier and naughtier. 

none: superimposed teleprinter caption: 'no bananas on algon' 

m'burke: well so much for that ... but of course, the probe itself has excited a great deal of interest... for it contains uranium-based dual transmission cells entirely re-charged by solar radiation, which can take off a bra and panties in less than fifteen seconds. it is, of course, the first piece of space hardware to be specially designed to undress ladies, and so there are bound to be some teething troubles ... such as how to cope with the combination of elastic-sided boots and tights. 

m'burke: but i think we're getting some pictures now from algon itself, and it looks as though ... yes! the satellite has found a bird! the probe has struck crumpet and she looks pretty good too! professor? 

professor: ja - she's a real honey! 

m'burke: well the pictures are a bit sporadic... i think probably... the solar radiation during the long journey to algon... 

m'burke: hoy! look! oh dear, i'm sorry we've lost contact. we'll try and re-establish contact with algon... 

badger: hello... the bbc have offered me the sum of forty pence to read the credits of this show. 

badger: also appearing were carol cleveland, marie anderson, mrs idle, make-up - madelaine gaffney, costume - hazel pethig, animations by terry gilliam, visual effects designer - bernard wilkie, graphics - bob blagden, film cameraman - alan featherstone, film editor - ray millichope, sound - richard chubb, lighting - bill bailey, designer - bob berk, produced by ian macnaughton for 92p and a bottle of bells whisky ... it was a bbc colour production. that's just it. i'd like to say if there are any bbc producers looking in who need people to read the credits for them, i would personally... 

<scene tudor job agency>

assistant: morning, sir, can i help you? 

customer: yes, yes... i wondered if you have any part-time vacancies on your books. 

assistant: part-time, i'll have a look, sir. 

assistant: let me look now. we've got, ah yes, sir walter raleigh is equipping another expedition to virginia; he needs traders and sailors. vittlers needed at the court of philip of spain, oh, yes, and they want master joiners and craftsmen for the building of the globe theatre. 

customer: i see. have you anything a bit more modern, you know, like a job on the buses, or digging the underground? 

assistant: oh no, we only have tudor jobs. 

customer: that can't be very profitable, can it? 

assistant: well, you'd be surprised, actually sir. the tudor economy's booming, ever since sir humphrey gilbert opened up the northwest passage to cathay, and the cabots' expansion in canada, there's been a tremendous surge in exports, and trade with the holy roman empire is going... no, quite right, it's no good at all. 

customer: what? 

assistant: it's a dead loss. we haven't put anyone in a job since 1625. 

customer: i see. 

assistant: that's all? 

assistant: that's all you say? 

customer: yes. 

assistant: no, no, we were the tops then. drake got all his sailors here. elizabeth, we supplied the archbishops for her coronation. shakespeare started off from here as a temp. then came james the first and the bottom fell out of the tudor jobs. 1603 - 800 vacancies filled, 1604 - 40, 1605 - none, 1606 - none. the rest of the stuart period nothing. hanoverians nothing. victorians nothing. saxe-coburgs nothing. windsors... what did you want? 

customer: dirty books, please. 

assistant: right. 

assistant: sorry about the tudor bit, but you can't be too careful, you know. have a look through these. 

customer: have you got anything a bit... er... 

assistant: a bit stronger? 

assistant: hold on ... a... my lord of warwick! 

second assistant: 'allo! 

assistant: raise high the drawbridge. gloucester's troops approach. 

second assistant: right. 

assistant: can't be too careful you know, sir. 

<scene pornographic bookshop>

second assistant: there's a 'bridget - queen of the whip'. 

nid: yes... 

second assistant: or 'naughty nora'... or there's this one: 'doug, bob and gordon visit the 

second assistant: ark royal 

second assistant: '. or there's 'sister teresa - the spanking nun'. 

nid: mmmm... i see ... you don't have anything specially about devon and cornwall? 

second assistant: no. i'm afraid not, sir. 

nid: the one i was really after was arthur hotchkiss's 'devonshire country churches'. 

second assistant: well how about this, sir: 'bum biters'. 

nid: no ... not really ... i don't suppose you have any general surveys of english church architecture? 

second assistant: no, it's not really our line, sir. 

nid: no, i see. well, never mind i'll just take the 'lord lieutenant in nylons' then, and these two copies of 'piggie parade'. thank you. 

second assistant: right, sir. 

first assistant: my lord of warwick. 

second assistant: 'allo? 

first assistant: raise high the drawbridge. gloucester's troops approach! 

second assistant: right. 

man: just these, then. 

gaskell: all right. this is a raid. my name is superintendent gaskell and this is sergeant maddox. 

second assistant: ah! sir philip sidney. 'tis good to see thee on these shores again. 

gaskell: shut up. 

second assistant: your suit is fair and goodly cut. was't from antwerp? 

gaskell: shut up. it's a disguise. right! confiscate the smutty books, maddox. 

second assistant: sir philip!. prithee nay! 

gaskell: listen, mate! don't come that philip sidney bit with me. i'm not a bloody tudor at all. i'm gaskell of the vice squad and this is sergeant maddox. 

gaskell: maddox! where's he gone? 

second assistant: sir philip, prithee rest awhile. 

gaskell: look. this is the last time. i'm warning you, i'm not sir philip bleeding sidney. i am superintendent harold gaskell and this is a raid. 

second assistant: that'll be 540 quid sir. 

man: oh, i'll just have this one then. 

gaskell: maddox! 

gaskell: where are you going? 

customer: i'm going home. 

gaskell: right. 

gaskell: i'll remember you. don't you worry. i'll remember you... 

customer: pray good, sir philip, that you... 

gaskell: don't you start! maddox! 

second assistant: farewell, good sir philip. 

gaskell: hey, stop! 

gaskell: you'll never get away with this, you porn merchant. blimey! 

gaskell: er, listen. my name is caskell ... superintendent caskell of vice squad. myself and sergeant maddox are on a raid. we are not tudor people. we are the police. 

father: frances, what idleness is this? why, good sir philip sidney, 

father: what hast thee here? 

gaskell: ... possibly... but i may be superintendent gaskell of the vice squad. 

father: ah good, sir philip, thy sharp-tongued wit has not deserted thee. come. let us eat and drink. stay with us awhile. 

gaskell: all right, sir. i think i will. 

gaskell: . .. then did we bust the harry tony mob, who did seek to import scandinavian filth via germany. for six years they cleaned up a packet - the day i got whiff of them through a squealer and within one week did a mop-up right good. they're now languishing doing five years bird in parkhurst. 

messenger: sir philip. the spaniards have landed in the netherlands. my lord walsingham needs you there forthwith. 

gaskell: let's go. 

gaskell: where are the spaniards? 

elizabethan gent: down below sir philip, their first boats are landing even now. 

gaskell: right, you stay here, i'll go and get them. 

elizabethan gent: sir philip! not alone! 

gaskell: allo allo! what's going on here? 

spaniard: ees nothing, señor, ees just some literature. 

gaskell: i know what literature is, you dago dustbin. i also know what porn is. 

gaskell: what's this then eh? 

spaniard: it is one of lope de vega's latest play, señor. 

gaskell: 'toledo tit parade'? what sort of play's that? 

spaniard: it's very visual, señor. 

gaskell: right. i'm taking this lot in the name of her gracious majesty queen elizabeth. 

spaniard: oh, but señor. 

gaskell: don't give me any trouble. just pile up these baskets of filth and come with me. 

voice over: the battle raged long and hard, but as night fell sidney overcame the spaniards. 6,000 copies of 'tits and bums' and 4,000 copies of 'shower sheila' were seized that day. the tide of spanish porn was stemmed. sir philip sidney returned to london in triumph. 

voice over: covered in glory, sir philip rode home to pensburst to see his beloved wife... but all was not well. 

gaskell: good evening all, my love. i have returned safe from the low countries. 

gaskell: what are thou reading, fair one? 

wife: oh, 'tis nothing, husband. 

gaskell: i can see 'tis 

gaskell: something 

gaskell: . 

wife: 'tis one of shakespeare's latest works. 

gaskell: oh ...'gay boys in bondage' what, is't - tragedy? comedy? 

wife: 'tis a... er... 'tis a story of a man's great love for his... fellow men. 

gaskell: how fortunate we are indeed to have such a poet on these shores. 

wife: indeed. how was the war, my lord? 

gaskell: the spaniards were defeated thrice. six dozen chests of hardcore captured. 

wife: hast brought home any spoils of war? 

gaskell: yes, good my wife, this fair coat trimmed with ermine. 

wife: oh, lovely, nowt else? 

gaskell: no, no fair lady. the rest was too smutty. 

gaskell: now, my good wife. whilst i rest, read to me a while from shakespeare's 'gay boys in bondage'. 

wife: yes... my lord ... 'gay boys in bondage' ... ken, 25, is a mounted policeman with a difference... and what a difference. even roger is surprised and he's... 

wife: he's used to real men ... 

gaskell: 'tis like 'hamlet' ... what a genius! 

wife: 'but who's going to do the cooking tonight? roddy's got a mouthful...' 

maddox: all right, this is a raid. 

wife: oh! we are disgraced! 

gaskell: there you are, maddox! 

maddox: cut the chat... and get in the van. 

gaskell: maddox! you recognize me... 

maddox: indeed i do, sir philip sidney, and sad i am to see you caught up in this morass of filth, 

maddox: ooh - that's a long one. 

wife: oh oh... the glorious name of sidney is besmirched ... all is lost ... oh alas the day. 

gaskell: shut up! i know this man - this is my old mate sergeant maddox... 

maddox: you'll do time for this. 

gaskell: oh maddox - it's me - gaskell ... 'f' division down at acton ... inspector arthur frodwell. 

maddox: come on sidney. 

maddox: and you, miss. 

gaskell: i'm not sir philip bleedin' sidney .... and where were you? we could have mopped up that tudor shop... 

maddox: ooh! that's a good one! 

<scene silly disturbances (the rev. arthur belling)>

none: an animated excerpt from this little known shakespearian masterpiece leads us to a table outside a restaurant. a young couple are sitting blissfully at it. 

she: it's nice here, darling, isn't it. 

he: it's beautiful, it's paris all over again. 

vicar: excuse me, do you mind if i join you? 

he: er, no... no... no... not at all. 

vicar: are you 

vicar: sure 

vicar: you don't mind? 

he: yes, yes, absolutely. 

vicar: you're sure i won't be disturbing you? 

he: no, no. 

vicar: you're absolutely sure i won't be disturbing you? 

she: no, no really. 

vicar: good. because i don't want to disturb you. specially as you're being so kind about me not disturbing you. 

he: oh, no, no, we don't mind, do we, darling? 

she: oh no, darling. 

vicar: good, so i can go ahead and join you then? can i? 

both: yes ... yes... 

vicar: won't be disturbing? 

both: no. no. 

vicar: good, good. you're very kind. 

vicar: let alone when i specifically tell them about my being disturbing. 

he: ... well, it's not 

he: particularly 

he: disturbing. 

vicar: no, absolutely, absolutely, that's what i always say. 

he: we must be getting on. 

vicar: i knew i'd disturb you ... i knew i'd disturb you ... 

vicar: it always happens ... whenever i've found someone i really think i'm going to be able to get on with... 

he: no, the only thing is, you see, we're going to be a little bit late. 

she: let's stay. 

he: well, just a little bit... i mean, we will be late if we don't... 

vicar: oh, thank you. you're very kind. 

she: we'd hurry along to st loony up the cream bun and jam. 

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

<scene the free repetition of doubtful words sketch, by an underrated author>

peepee: i've come for some free repetition of doubtful words on an inland telegram. 

clerk: have you got the telegram in question? 

peepee: i have the very thing here. 

clerk: well, slip it to me my good chap and let me eye the contents. 

peepee: at once mr telegram enquiry man. 

clerk: thank you mr customer man. 

clerk: aha. 'parling i glove you. clease clome at bronce, your troving swife, pat.' which was the word you wanted checking? 

peepee: pat. 

clerk: pat? 

peepee: my wife's name is not pat at all. 

clerk: no? 

peepee: it's bat. with a b. 

clerk: and therefore i will take a quick look in the book. 

peepee: ripping. 

none: caption: 'one quick look in the book later' 

clerk: you're quite right, old cock. there 

clerk: has 

clerk: been a mistake. 

peepee: i thought as much. what really does it say? 

clerk: it say 'go away you silly little bleeder. i am having another man. love bat'. quite some error. 

peepee: yes. she wouldn't call herself pat, it's silly. 

clerk: daft, i call it. 

peepee: well it has been a pleasure working with you. 

clerk: for me also it has been a pleasure. and that concludes our little skit. 

<scene 'is there?'...life after death?>

roger last: good evening. tonight on 'is there' we examine the question, 'is there a life after death?'. and here to discuss it are three dead people... the late sir brian hardacre, former curator of the imperial war museum ... 

roger last: professor? ... prebendary?.... well there we have it, three say no. on 'is there' next week we'll be discussing the question 'is there enough of it about?', and until then, goodnight. 

none: superimposed credits: 

none: 'is there' 

none: introduced by roger last 

none: research: j. losey 

none: l. anderson 

none: s. kubrick 

none: p. p. pasolini 

none: o. welles 

none: the late b. forbes 

none: produced by: gillian (aged 3 l/2) 

<scene the man who says words in the wrong order>

none: cut to a doctor's surgery. the doctor has in front of him a plaque which says 'dr e. h. thripshaw'. enter burrows. 

burrows: good doctor morning! nice year for the time of day! 

thripshaw: come in. 

burrows: can i down sit? 

thripshaw: certainly. 

thripshaw: well, then? 

burrows: well, now, not going to bush the doctor about the beat too long. i'm going to come to point the straight immediately. 

thripshaw: good, good. 

burrows: my particular prob, or buglem bear, i've had ages. for years, i've had it for donkeys. 

thripshaw: what? 

burrows: i'm up to here with it, i'm sick to death. i can't take you any longer so i've come to see it. 

thripshaw: ah, now this is your problem with words. 

burrows: this is my problem with words. oh, that seems to have cleared it. 'oh i come from alabama with my banjo on my knee'. yes, that seems to be all right. thank you very much. 

thripshaw: i see. but recently you have been having this problem with your word order. 

burrows: well, absolutely, and what makes it worse, sometimes at the end of a sentence i'll come out with the wrong fusebox. 

thripshaw: fusebox? 

burrows: and the thing about saying the wrong word is a) i don't notice it, and b) sometimes orange water given bucket of plaster. 

thripshaw: yes, tell me more about your problem. 

burrows: well as i say, you'd just be talking and out'll pudenda the wrong word and ashtray's your uncle. so i'm really strawberry about it. 

thripshaw: upset? 

burrows: it's so embarrassing when my wife and i go to an orgy. 

thripshaw: a party? 

burrows: no, an orgy. we live in esher. 

thripshaw: quite. 

burrows: that's what i said. such a bloody whack the diddle fa di la, fo di la, lo do di ... do di do, rum fum. 

thripshaw: mr burrows, this is no common problem. you are suffering from a disease so rare that it hasn't got a name. not yet. but it will have. oh yes. this is the opportunity i've been waiting for. the chance of a lifetime! 

thripshaw: i'll show them at the royal college of surgeons! i'll make them sit up and take notice! thripshaw's disease! discovered by e. henry thripshaw md! i'll be invited on 'call my bluff' and the merchandizing, there'll be e. henry thripshaw t-shirts ... i'll turn it into a game ... i'll sell the film rights. 

<scene thripshaw's disease>

none: harley street 

none: fleet street 

none: broadway 

none: hollywood 

interviewer: that clip... comes from the new david o. seltzer... film. the author... of that film clip ... is with me ... now. doctor e. henry ... thripshaw. 

thripshaw: well, i feel that they have missed the whole point of my disease. 

interviewer: this is .... always the problem ... with directors of film... clips. 

thripshaw: yes, well you see, they've dragged in all this irrelevant mush... 

interviewer: what... are you doing ... now? 

thripshaw: well at the moment i am working on a new disease, which i hope to turn into a musical, but, primarily we are working on a re-make of my first disease and this time we're hoping to do it properly. 

interviewer: well ... let's just ... take a ... look at this new film...clip. 

thripshaw: well now, what seems to be the matter? 

<scene silly noises>

man: the next sketch starts after some silly noises. 

<scene sherry-drinking vicar>

vicar: come in. 

kirkham: i wondered if i could have a word with you for a moment. 

vicar: by all means ... by all means, sir. do sit down. 

vicar: ah, sit on the desk here. 

kirkham: thank you. 

vicar: now then, a glass of sherry? 

kirkham: no... no thank you... 

vicar: are you sure? i'm going to have some. 

kirkham: well, if you're having some, yes then, perhaps, vicar. 

vicar: oh... well there's only just enough for me. 

kirkham: well in that case i won't, don't worry. 

vicar: you see, if i split what's left, there'd be hardly any left for me at all. 

kirkham: well, i'm not a great sherry drinker. 

vicar: good! so, i can have it all ... now then what's the problem? 

kirkham: well, just recently i've begun to worry about... 

vicar: ah! i've found another bottle! you can have some now if you want to. 

kirkham: well... yes, perhaps a little... 

vicar: oh you don't have to. i can drink the whole bottle. 

kirkham: well in that case, no... 

vicar: good! that's another bottle for me. do go on. 

kirkham: i've begun to worry recently that... 

vicar: come in! 

vicar: ah, mr husband ... this is mr kirkham, one of my parishioners, this is mr husband of the british sherry corporation... 

kirkham: look, look, perhaps i'd better come back later... 

vicar: no, no ... no do stay here. have a sherry... you won't be long will you, husband? 

husband: oh no, vicar... it's just a question of signing a few forms. 

vicar: there we are... there we are, mr husband. now, how about you, mr kirkham? 

kirkham: well only if there's enough. 

vicar: oh well, there's not much now. 

kirkham: oh, in that case... no... i won't bother. 

vicar: good. right... now, then, what is the problem, husband? 

husband: well, vicar, i've made enquiries with our shippers and the most sherry they can ship in any one load is 12,000 gallons. 

vicar: and how many glasses is that? 

husband: that's roughly 540,000 glasses, vicar. 

vicar: that's excellent, husband, excellent. 

husband: yes... it means you can still keep your main sherry supply on the roof, but you can have an emergency supply underneath the vestry of 5,000 gallons. 

vicar: yes... and i could have dry sherry on the roof and amontillado in the underground tank! 

husband: absolutely. 

vicar: excellent work, husband, excellent work. 

husband: not at all, vicar, you're one of our best customers... you and the united states. well goodbye. 

vicar: terrific. now then, mr kirkham 

vicar: i am so sorry... do go on. 

kirkham: well, it's just that recently i've begun to worry about... 

vicar: well, look... 

kirkham: i sometimes ask myself - does the bible intend... 

man: what did you want? 

vicar: dirty books, please. 

voice over: e. henry thripshaw t-shirts are now available from bbc enterprises. the price hasn't finally been decided, and the address to write to...they haven't yet quite worked out. 

<scene 'boxing tonight' - jack bodell v. kenneth clark>

none: superimposed caption: 'boxing tonight' 

voice over: 'boxing tonight' comes from the empire pool, wembley and features the main heavyweight bout between jack bodell, british and empire heavyweight champion. 

voice over: it's the first time these two have met so there should be some real action tonight... 

sir kenneth: this then is the height of the english renaissance, the triumph of classical over gothic ... the ... 

voice over: he's down! sir kenneth clark is down in eight seconds. but he's up again. he's up at six... 

sir kenneth: the almost ordered facades of palladio's villas reflects the... 

voice over: and he's down again, and i don't think he's going to get up this time. 

voice over: no, so jack bodel has defeated sir kenneth clark in the very first round here tonight and so this big lincolnshire heavyweight becomes the new oxford professor of fine art. 

announcer: thank you, thank you, thank you, ladies and gentlemen. and now... 

it's man: it's... 

<scene dennis moore>

none: slow pan across idyllic countryside. we see a traditional eighteenth-century coach and horses travelling along the valley floor. suddenly a highwayman, dennis moore, spurs his horse forward and rides up to the coach brandishing pistols. 

moore: stand and deliver! drop that gun! 

moore: you see the three trees, the third from the left and back a bit - that one - i reckon i clould hit that four times out of five...on a good day. say with this wind...say, say, seven times out of ten... 

squire: what, that tree there? 

moore: which one? 

squire: the big beech with the sort of bare branch coming out of the top left. 

moore: no, no, no, not that one. 

girl: no, no, he means the one over there. look, you see that one. 

squire: yes. 

girl: well now, go two along to the right. 

coachman: just near that little bush. 

girl: well, it's the one just behind it. 

squire: ah! the elm. 

moore: no, that's not an elm. an elm's got sort of great clumps of leaves like that. that's either a beech or a...er...hornbeam. 

parson: a hornbeam? 

moore: oh, no not a hornbeam, what's the tree that has a leaf with sort of regular veins coming out and the veins go all the way out to the... 

girl: serrated? 

moore: ...to the serrated edges. 

parson: a willow! 

moore: that's right. 

parson: that's nothing like a willow. 

moore: well it doesn't matter, anyway. i can hit it seven times out of ten, that's the point. 

parson: never a willow. 

moore: shut up! this is a hold-up, not a botany lesson. right, now my fine friends, no false moves please. i want you to hand over all the lupins you've got. 

squire: lupins? 

moore: yes, lupins. come on, come on. 

parson: what do you mean, lupins? 

moore: don't try to play for time. 

parson: i'm not, you mean the flower lupin? 

moore: yes, that's right. 

squire: well, we haven't got any lupins. 

girl: honestly. 

moore: look, my fine friends. i happen to know that this is the lupin express. 

squire: you must be out of your tiny mind. 

moore: get out of the coach. come on, get out! 

squire: well, so much for the lupins. 

moore: here we are, i'll be back. 

<scene what the stars foretell>

mrs o: morning, mrs trepidatious. 

mrs trepidatious: oh, i don't know what's good about it, my right arm's hanging off something awful. 

mrs o: oh, you want to have that seen to. 

mrs trepidatious: what, by that dr morrison? he's killed more patients than i've had severe boils. 

mrs o: what do the stars say? 

mrs trepidatious: well, petula clark says burst them early, but david frost... 

mrs o: no, the stars in the paper, you cloth-eared heap of anteater's catarrh, the zodiacal signs, the horoscopic fates, the astrological portents, the omens, the genethliac prognostications, the mantalogical harbingers, the vaticinal utterances, the fatidical premonitory uttering of the mantalogical omens - what do the bleeding stars in the paper predict, forecast, prophesy, foretell, prognosticate... 

voice over: and this is where you at home can join in. 

mrs o: ... forebode, bode, augur, spell, foretoken, 

mrs o: presage, portend, foreshow, foreshadow, forerun, herald, point to, betoken, indicate! 

mrs trepidatious: i don't know. 

mrs o: what are you? 

mrs trepidatious: i'm nesbitt. 

mrs o: there's not a zodiacal sign called nesbitt... 

mrs trepidatious: all right, derry and toms. 

mrs o: aquarius, scorpio, virgo, derry and toms. april 29th to march 22nd. even dates only. 

mrs trepidatious: well what does it presage? 

mrs o: you have green, scaly skin, and a soft yellow underbelly with a series of fin-like ridges running down your spine and tail. although lizardlike in shape, you can grow anything up to thirty feet in length with huge teeth that can bite off great rocks and trees. you inhabit arid sub-tropical zones and wear spectacles. 

mrs trepidatious: it's very good about the spectacles. 

mrs o: it's amazing. 

mrs trepidatious: mm ... what's yours, irene? 

mrs o: basil. 

mrs trepidatious: i'm sorry, what's yours, basil? 

mrs o: no. that's my star sign, basil... 

mrs trepidatious: there isn't a... 

mrs o: yes there is ... aquarius, sagittarius, derry and toms, basil. june 21st to june 22nd. 

mrs trepidatious: well, what does it say? 

mrs o: you have green, scaly skin and a series of yellow underbellies running down your spine and tail ... 

mrs trepidatious: that's exactly the same! 

mrs o: try number one ... what's aquarius? 

mrs trepidatious: it's a zodiacal sign. 

mrs o: i know that, what does it say in the paper mrs flan-and-pickle? 

mrs trepidatious: all right... oh! it says, 'a wonderful day ahead'. you will be surrounded by family and friends. roger moore will drop in for lunch, bringing tony curtis with him. in the afternoon a substantial cash sum will come your way. in the evening petula clark will visit your home accompanied by mike samrues singers. she will sing for you in your own living room. before you go to bed, peter wyngarde will come and declare his undying love for you. 

mrs o: urghh! what's scorpio? 

mrs trepidatious: oh, that's very good. 'you will have lunch with a schoolfriend of duane eddy's, who will insist on whistling some of duane's greatest instrumental hits. in the afternoon you will die, you will be buried...' 

<scene doctor>

doctor: good morning. 

mrs o: oh, morning, doctor. 

doctor: how's the old arm this morning, mrs ikon? 

mrs trepidatious: oh, it's still hanging off at the shoulder. 

doctor: good, well lets have a look at it, shall we? 

doctor: oh damn, damn, damn, damn... damn this wretched bag... oh the wretched, damn, bloody, little bag. it's the one thing i hate about being a doctor - it's this wretched bloody little bag! 

doctor: what's that doing here? 

second doctor: eurgggh! 

doctor: hand over the money. 

mrs trepidatious: thank you, doctor. 

doctor: morning, mr henson ... how are we today? 

henson: not too bad, doctor. 

doctor: ok, take it easy ... 

doctor: expecting any postal orders this week? 

henson: no. 

doctor: righto. 

doctor: ah, mr rodgers, have you got your unemployment benefit please? right. well can you write me a cheque then... please? 

doctor: thank you very much. soon have you down to nothing. ah, mr millichope. 

<scene 'tv4 or not tv4' diskussion>

none: superimposed captions: 

none: 'the great debate' 

none: 'number 31' 

none: 'tv4 or not tv4?' 

kennedy: hello. should there be another television channel, or should there not? on tonight's programme the minister for broadcasting, the right honourable mr ian throat mp. 

throat: good evening. 

kennedy: the chairman of the amalgamated money tv, sir abe sappenheim. 

sappenheim: good evening. 

kennedy: the shadow spokesman for television, lord kinwoodie. 

kinwoodie: hello. 

kennedy: and a television critic, mr patrick loone. 

loone: hello. 

kennedy: gentlemen - should there be a fourth television channel or not? ian? 

throat: yes. 

kennedy: francis. 

kinwoodie: no. 

kennedy: sir abe? 

sappenheim: yes. 

kennedy: patrick. 

loone: no. 

none: superimposed caption: 'yes 2 no 2' 

kennedy: well there you have it. two say will, two say won't. we'll be back again next week, and next week's 'great debate' will be about government interference in broadcasting and will be cancelled mysteriously. 

<scene lupins>

voice over: just starting on bbc 1 now, 'victoria regina' the inspiring tale of the simple crofter's daughter who worked her way up to become queen of england and empress of the greatest empire television has ever seen. on bbc 2 now episode 3 of 'george i' the new 116 part serial about the famous english king who hasn't been done yet. on itv now the 

voice over: ugh! 

grantley: ah! 'tis my lord of buckingham. pray welcome, your grace. 

buckingham: thank you, grantley. 

grantley: ladies, may i introduce to you the man who prophesied that a german monarch would soon embroil this country in continental affairs. 

first lady: oh, how so, my lord? 

buckingham: madam, you will recall that prior to his accession our gracious sovereign george had become involved in the long standing northern war, through his claims to bremen and verdun. these duchies would provide an outlet to the sea of the utmost value to hanover. the treaty of westphalia has assigned them to sweden. 

grantley: in 1648. 

buckingham: exactly. 

grantley: meanwhile frederick william of denmark, taking advantage of the absence of charles xii, seized them; 1712. 

second lady: oh yes! 

first lady: it all falls into place. more wine? 

grantley: oh, thank you. 

buckingham: however, just prior to his accession, george had made an alliance with frederick william of prussia, on the grounds of party feeling. 

grantley: while frederick william had married george's only daughter. 

first lady: i remember the wedding. 

buckingham: but chiefly through concern at the concerted action against charles xii... 

moore: stand and deliver. 

all: dennis moore! 

moore: the same. and now my lords, my ladies ...your lupins, please. 

buckingham: our what? 

moore: oh, come come, don't play games with me my lord of buckingham. 

buckingham: what can you mean? 

moore: your life or your lupins, my lord. 

moore: in a bunch, in a bunch. 

moore: thank you my friends, and now a good evening to you all. 

grantley: he seeks them here ... he seeks them there ... he seeks those lupins everywhere. the murdering blackguard! he's taken all our lupins. 

first lady: not quite. 

buckingham: oh you tricked him! 

man: we still have one! 

male peasant: oh mr moore, mr moore, she's going fast. 

moore: don't worry, i've... i've brought you something. 

male peasant: medicine at last? 

moore: no. 

male peasant: food? 

male peasant: some blankets perhaps... clothes... wood for the fire... 

moore: no. lupins! 

male peasant: oh christ! 

moore: i thought you liked them. 

male peasant: i'm sick to bloody death of them. 

female peasant: so am i. 

male peasant: she's bloody dying and all you bring us is lupins. all we've eaten mate for the last four bleeding weeks is lupin soup, roast lupin, steamed lupin, braised lupin in lupin sauce, lupin in the basket with sauted lupins, lupin meringue pie, lupin sorbet... we sit on lupins, we sleep in lupins, we feed the cat on lupins, we burn lupins, we even 

male peasant: wear 

male peasant: the bloody things! 

moore: looks very smart. 

male peasant: oh shut up! we're sick to death with the stench of them. 

male peasant: ! 

moore: like what? 

male peasant: like gold and silver and clothes and wood and jewels and... 

moore: hang on, i'll get a piece of paper. 

buckingham: this, coupled with the presence of peter and his prussians at mecklenburg and charles and his swedes in pomerania, made george and stanhope eager to come to terms with france. 

grantley: meanwhile, a breach had now opened with... 

grantley: oh no, not again. 

buckingham: come on. 

moore: stand and deliver again! your money, your jewellery, your ... hang on. 

moore: your clothes, your snuff, your ornaments, your glasswear, your pussy cats... 

buckingham: don't say anything about the lupins... 

moore: your watches, your lace, your spittoons... 

moore: here we are. 

none: superimposed caption: 'the end' 

<scene ideal loon exhibition>

voice over: well it may be the end of that, but it's certainly far from the end of - well in fact it's the beginning - well not quite the beginning - well certainly nearer the beginning than the end - well yes damn it, it is to all intents and purposes the beginning of this year's ideal loon exhibition, sponsored by the 'daily express'. 

voice over: but the climax of the whole event is the judging. 

pa announcement: mr justice burke. 

pa announcement: and the winner is - number 41, mr justice burke. 

<scene off-licence>

none: close up of a man's face. 

mcgough: yet fear, not like an aged florin, can so disseminate men's eyes, that fortune, straining at a kissing touch may stop her ceaseless search to sport amidst the rampant thrust of time, and bring the thing undone to pass by that with which the cock may chance an arm. 

mr bones: well that's all very well, sir, but this is an off-licence. 

mcgough: oh. just a bottle of sherry then, please. 

mr bones: certainly... amontillado? 

mcgough: yes, i think amontillado, finely grown ... well chosen from the casque of pluto's hills, cell'd deep within the vinous soil of spain, wrench'd thence from fiery regions of the sun... 

mr bones: yes, yes sir. just one bottle? 

mcgough: just one bottle. just one jot. just one tittle. that's the lot. 

mr bones: there we are, sir. that'll be a pound, please. 

mcgough: a pound a pound and all around abound 

mcgough: a pound found found 

mcgough: lost lost the cost till was't embossed... 

mr bones: excuse me, sir. 

mcgough: yes, good victualler, nature's trencherman, mine honest tapster... 

mr bones: i was just wondering. are you a poet? 

mcgough: no, no, i'm a solicitor... well versed within the written law of man, we can to those who need... 

mr bones: oh 

mr bones: shut 

mr bones: up. 

mcgough: i'm sorry. i'm afraid i've caught poetry. 

mr bones: oh really? well, don't worry, sir - i used to suffer from short stories. 

mcgough: really? when? 

mr bones: oh, once upon a time ... there lived in wiltshire a young chap called dennis moore. now dennis was a highwayman by profession ... 

mr bones: ... and for several months he had been stealing from the rich to give to the poor. one day... 

<scene dennis moore: stealing from the poor>

moore: here we are again, mr jenkins. 

buckingham: meanwhile frederick william bushy engaged in defending against the three great powers the province of silesia... 

grantley: ... which he had seized in the war of the austrian succession against his word. 

first lady: yes, i remember. 

man: ... was now dependent on pitt's subsidies. 

moore: my lords, my ladies, on your feet, please. 

moore: point of view, it's perfectly satisfactory... 

first lady: what do you 

first lady: want 

first lady: ? why are you here? 

moore: why are any of us here? i mean, when you get down to it, it's all so meaningless, isn't it? i mean what do any of us want... 

buckingham: no, no, what do you want 

buckingham: now 

buckingham: ? 

moore: oh i see, oh just the usual things, a little place of my own, the right girl... 

grantley: no, no, no! what do you want from 

grantley: us 

grantley: ? 

moore: oh sorry. your gold, your silver, your jewellery. 

buckingham: you've taken it all. 

first lady: this is all we've got left. 

moore: that's nice. i'll have them. come on. 

buckingham: you'd better take the bloody lupin too. 

moore: thank you very much, i've gone through that stage. 

male peasant: what you got for us today then. 

moore: well i've managed to find you four very nice silver spoons mr jenkins. 

male peasant: who do you think you are giving us poor this rubbish? 

female peasant: bloody silver. won't have it in the house. 

female peasant: and those candlesticks you got us last week were only sixteen carat. 

male peasant: yes, why don't you go out and steal something nice like some venetian silver. 

female peasant: or a velasquez for the outside loo. 

moore: oh all right. 

moore: what did you sing? 

moore: wait a tic ... blimey, this redistribution of wealth is trickier than i thought. 

<scene 'prejudice'>

braddon: good evening and welcome to another edition of 'prejudice' - the show that gives you a chance to have a go at wops, krauts, nigs, eyeties, gippos, bubbles, froggies, chinks, yidds, jocks, polacks, paddies and dagoes. 

none: superimposed caption: 'all facts verified by the rhodesian police' 

braddon: tonight's show comes live from the tiny village of rabid in buckinghamshire, and our first question tonight is from a mrs elizabeth scrint who says she is going on a mediterranean cruise next week and can't find anything wrong with the syrians. well, mrs scrint, apart from being totally unprincipled left-wing troublemakers, the syrians are also born skivers, they're dirty, smelly and untrustworthy, and, of course, they're friends of the awful gippos. 

braddon: so before the streets start emptying in chelsea tonight, let's go straight over to our popular prejudiced panel game and invite you once again to - shoot the poof! and could our first contestant sign in please. 

voice over: our first contestant is a hairdresser from... 

highwayman: i never did like that kind of person... ! 

<scene dennis moore: redistibuting the wealth>

moore: halt! halt! 

none: caption: 'erratum. jack bodell was born in swadlincote in derbyshire' 

friend: i thought you should have won. i mean, judicially you swept the board ... all right, he has posture, but where was he in the summing up? 

mother: oh shut up melford, there's always next year. 

<scene party political broadcast (choreographed)>

none: caption: 'a party political broadcast on behalf of the conservative and unionist party' 

voice over: there now follows a party political broadcast on behalf of the conservative and unionist party. 

politician: good evening. figures talk. we have already fulfilled over three of our election pledges before the end of our second year of good conservative rule. and, what is more 

politician: ... 

choreographer: no, no, no, no... look, luv, it's 

choreographer: and 

choreographer: one and two and three and four, and five and six and seven and down. 

politician: ... five and six and seven and down... it's so much harder with the words. 

choreographer: well, don't think of them. just count four in your head. 

politician: and ... 

politician: one 

politician: fur 

politician: two 

politician: three 

politician: and ... no, i can't really... 

choreographer: yes, well come on and do it with me, come on. and ... 

both: fur 

both: more 

both: hope 

both: we 

both: stop 

both: ris 

both: un 

both: ploy 

choreographer: and point 'unemployment' with your finger. 

politician: i see. i can do it when you're here. 

choreographer: i won't be far away. all right, neville love, we're going from 'unemployment' through 'pensions' into 'good government is strong government' and the walk down, all fight? and ... cue, love. 

politician: and 

politician: more 

politician: hope 

politician: we 

politician: stop 

politician: ris 

politician: un 

politician: ploy 

politician: at 

politician: stroke 

politician: e 

politician: quick 

politician: -er. 

choreographer: that's where you'll get the bunting and the ticker tape, chris. right, big smiles, everybody, remember you're cabinet ministers. and relax. 

choreographer: lovely, it's trans at eight, so nobody be late. 

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

<scene 'a book at bedtime'>

none: superimposed caption: 'a book at bedtime' 

<scene 'redgauntlet'>

voice over: 'book at bedtime'. tonight jeremy toogood reads 'redgauntlet' by sir walter scott. 

jeremy: hello. 

jeremy: ... of edingrund ... dydburing... edingbir... edinburgh! castle ... was... siluted ... sil ... sillhou... 

second reader: the sunset was dying over the hills of solway firth. the lone piper on the battlements of edinburgh castle was silhouetted against the crim ... crim ... crimisy... crimson! against the crimson strays ... stree... 

third reader: streaked! 

second reader: streaked? 

third reader: crimson-streaked sky ... in the shadows of... crrignu... 

technician: cairngorm! in the shadows of cairngorm! 

third reader: in the shadows of cairngorm, the l... layered... 

jeremy: galloped! 

<scene kamikaze scotsmen>

jeremy: the lone piper on the battlements of edinburgh castle... 

rsm: next! 

voice over: so successful has been the training of the kamikaze regiment that the numbers have dwindled from 30,000 to just over a dozen in three weeks. what makes these young scotsmen so keen to kill themselves? 

scots soldier: the money's good! 

second soldier: and the water skiing! 

rsm: ten-shun. 

captain: all right, sergeant major. at ease. now, how many chaps have you got left? 

rsm: six, sir, 

captain: six? 

rsm: five, sir. 

captain: jolly good show, sergeant major. 

captain: well, i've come to tell you that we've got a job for your five lads. 

rsm: four, sir. 

captain: for your four lads. 

rsm: good luck, taggart. 

taggart: thank you, sarge. 

captain: now, which ... er ... which four are they? 

rsm: these three here, sir. ok. off you go, smith. 

captain: ... er ... sergeant major! 

rsm: yes, sir? 

captain: you don't think it might be a good idea... er... to stop the training programme for a little bit? 

rsm: they got to be trained, sir. it's a dangerous job. 

captain: yes ... i know... but... er ... 

rsm: all right macpherson, you're next, off you go. 

captain: you see what is worrying me, sergeant major, is... 

macpherson: i'll make it a gud'un, sir! 

rsm: good luck, macpherson. 

captain: er... macpherson... 

rsm: both of who, sir? 

captain: sergeant major, what's this man's name? 

rsm: this one sir? this one is macdonald, sir. 

captain: no, no, no, no. 

captain: hang on to macdonald, sergeant major, hang on to him. 

rsm: i don't know whether i can, sir... 

rsm: he's in a state of itsubishi kyoko mcsayonara. 

captain: what's that? 

rsm: it's the fifth state that a scotsman can achieve, sir. he's got to finish himself off by lunchtime or he thinks he's let down the emperor, sir. 

captain: well, can't we get him out of it? 

rsm: oh, i dunno how to, sir. our kamikaze instructor, mr yashimoto, was so good he never left tokyo airport. 

captain: well, there must be someone else who can advise us? 

man: good morning, kamikaze, please. 

man: thank you. 

<scene no time to lose>

captain: right, sergeant major - there's no time to lose. 

rsm: beg pardon, sir? 

captain: no time to lose. 

rsm: no what, sir? 

captain: no time ... no time to lose. 

rsm: oh, i see, sir. 

rsm: no time ... to ... lose!! 

captain: yes, that's right, yes. 

rsm: yes, no time to lose, sir! 

captain: right. 

rsm: isn't that funny, sir... i've never come across that phrase before - 'no time to lose'. forty-two years i've been in the regular army and i've never heard that phrase. 

captain: well, it's in perfectly common parlance. 

rsm: in what, sir? 

captain: oh never mind... right ... no time to lose. 

rsm: eventually, yes, sir. 

captain: what? 

rsm: like you say, sir. we'll be able to make time, eventually without to lose, sir, no. 

captain: look, i don't think you've quite got the hang of this phrase, sergeant major. 

consultant: morning, no time to lose ... 

consultant: now then, how were you thinking of using the phrase? 

man: well, i was thinking of using it ... er .. like .., well ... 'good morning dear, what is in no time to lose?' 

consultant: er yes ... well ... you've not quite got the hang of that, have you. 

consultant: now, you want to use this phrase in everyday conversation, is that right? 

man: yes, that's right. 

consultant: yes ... good ... 

man: you see my wife and i have never had a great deal to say to each other ... 

man: in the old days we used to find things to say, like 'pass the sugar'... or, 'that's my flannel', but in the last ten or fifteen years there just hasn't seemed to be anything to say, and anyway i saw your phrase advertised in the paper and i thought, that's the kind of thing i'd like to say to her... 

consultant: yes, well, what we normally suggest for a beginner such as yourself, is that you put your alarm clock back ten minutes in the morning, so you can wake up, look at the clock and use the phrase immediately. 

consultant: shall we try it? 

man: yes. 

consultant: all right - i'll be the alarm clock. when i go off, look at me and use the phrase, ok? 

man: no! 

man: time 

man: to lose! 

consultant: no... no time to lose. 

man: no time to 

man: lose 

man: ? 

consultant: no time to lose. 

man: no 

man: time 

man: to lose. 

consultant: no - to 

consultant: lose 

consultant: ... like toulouse in france. no time toulouse. 

man: no time 

man: too 

man: lose... 

consultant: no time toulouse. 

man: no time toulouse... 

consultant: no! - no time to 

consultant: ! 

man: no - no time to 

man: ! 

none: animation: 

captain: anyway, no time to lose, sergeant major. 

rsm: look out, sir! macdonald! 

rsm: we'll have to hurry, sir. 

rsm: he's reached the sixth plane already, sir. 

captain: right, here are the plans sergeant major, good luck. 

rsm: thank you, sir. 

captain: and good luck to you, macdonald. 

macdonald: thank you, sir. 

rsm: right you are, macdonald. no time to lose. 

captain: very good, sergeant major. 

consultant: yes, excellent... 

voice over: so it was that on a cold november morning, rsm urdoch and sapper macdonald, one of the most highly trained kamikaze experts the scottish highlands have ever witnessed, left on a mission which was to... oh i can't go on with this drivel. 

rsm: all right, macdonald, no time to lose. 

macdonald: aaaaaaugh! 

captain: well, that's the mission - now here's the method. rsm murdoch will lull the enemy into a false sense of security by giving them large quantities of money, a good home, and a steady job. then, when they're upstairs with the wife, sapper macdonald will hurl himself at the secret documents, destroying them and himself. well, that's the plan, the time is now 19.42 hours. i want you to get to bed, have a good night's rest and be up on parade early in the morning. thank you for listening and thank you for a lovely supper. 

toogood: and...and...sue...so...the...the...intripid... 

make-up girl: intrepid. 

all: intrepid. 

toogood: intrepid rsm urdoch and super... 

technician: sapper. 

toogood: sapper macdonald...mead... 

several: made! 

toogood: made their why... 

several: way! 

toogood: way toarra... 

make-up girl: towards... 

toogood: towards the rusty...ritzy... 

all: russian! 

toogood: russian bolder... 

all: border! 

toogood's voice: ...and so rsm urdoch and sapper macdonald made their way towards the russian bolder... 

all: border!!...border. 

<scene penguins>

none: cut to stock film on penguins. 

none: superimposed captions: 

none: 'frontiers of medicine part 2' 

none: 'the gathering storm' 

presenter: penguins, yes, penguins. what relevance do penguins have to the furtherance of medical science? well, strangely enough quite a lot, a major breakthrough, maybe. it was from such an unlikely beginning as an unwanted fungus accidentally growing on a sterile plate that sir alexander fleming gave the world penicillin. james watt watched an ordinary household kettle boiling and conceived the potentiality of steam power. would albert einstein ever have hit upon the theory of relativity if he hadn't been clever? all these tremendous leaps forward have been taken in the dark. would rutherford ever have split the atom if he hadn't tried? could marconi have invented the radio if he hadn't by pure chance spent years working at the problem? are these amazing breakthroughs ever achieved except by years and years of unremitting study? of course not. what i said earlier about accidental discoveries must have been wrong. nevertheless scientists believe that these penguins, these comic flightless web-footed little bastards may finally unwittingly help man to fathom the uncharted depths of the human mind. professor rosewall of the laver institute. 

scientist: hello. here at the institute professor charles pasarell, dr peaches bartkowicz and myself have been working on the theory originally postulated by the late dr kramer that the penguin is intrinsically more intelligent than the human being. 

scientist: the first thing that dr kramer came up with was that the penguin has a much smaller brain than the man. this postulate formed the fundamental basis of all his thinking and remained with him until his death. 

scientist: now we've taken this theory one stage further. if we increase the size of the penguin until it is the same height as the man and then compare the relative brain sizes, we now find that the penguin's brain is still smaller. but, and this is the point, it is larger than it was. 

peaches: for a penguin to have the same size of brain as a man the penguin would have to be over sixty-six feet high. 

scientist: this theory has become known as the waste of time theory and was abandoned in 1956. 

scientist: the bbc programme planners surprisingly high total here can be explained away as being within the ordinary limits of statistical error. one particularly dim programme planner can cock the whole thing up. 

none: caption: 'you can say that again' 

hoad: these iq tests were thought to contain an unfair cultural bias against the penguin. for example, it didn't take into account the penguins extremely poor educational system. to devise a fairer system of test, a team of our researchers spent eighteen months in antarctica living like penguins, and subsequently dying like penguins - only quicker - proving that the penguin is a clever little sod in his own environment. 

scientist: therefore we devised tests to be given to the penguins in the fourth set ... i do beg your pardon, in their own environment. 

voice: net! 

scientist: shh! 

professor: what is the next number in this sequence - 2, 4, 6. . . 

professor: did he say eight? ... 

professor: what is... 

scientist: the environmental barrier had been removed but we'd hit another: the language barrier. the penguins could not speak english and were therefore unable to give the answers. this problem was removed in the next series of experiments by asking the same questions to the penguins and to a random group of non-english-speaking humans in the same conditions. 

professor: what is the next number? 2, 4, 6... 

swedish person: . . . hello? 

scientist: the results of these tests were most illuminating. the penguins scores were consistently equal to those of the non-english-speaking group. 

hoad: these enquiries led to certain changes at the bbc ... 

<scene bbc programme planners>

hoad: while attendances at zoos boomed. 

voice over: soon these feathery little hustlers were infiltrating important positions everywhere. 

<scene unexploded scotsman>

none: superimposed caption: 'meanwhile at a checkpoint on the russo-polish border' 

first major: svientitzi hobonwy kratow sveguminurdy. 

none: superimposed subtitles: 'these are the very important secret documents i was telling you about' 

second major: we must study them in conditions of absolute secrecy. 

none: superimposed subtitle: 'what?' 

second major: look out! 

none: superimposed subtitle: 'regardez la!' 

second major: he hasn't gone off. 

none: superimposed caption: 'ze habe nicht geshploden' 

none: subtitle: 'quick! ring the unexploded scotsman squad' 

second major: yes my general! 

<scene 'spot the loony'>

presenter: and welcome to 'spot the loony', where once again we invite you to come with us all over the world to meet all kinds of people in all kinds of places, and ask you to . .. spot the loony! 

none: superimposed caption: 'all answers verified by encyclopaedia britannica' 

presenter: our panel this evening... gurt svensson, the swedish mammal abuser and part-time radiator. 

svensson: good evening. 

presenter: dame elsie occluded, historian, wit, bon viveur, and rear half of the johnson brothers... 

dame elsie: good evening. 

presenter: and miles yellowbird, up high in banana tree, the golfer and inventor of catholicism. 

miles: good evening. 

presenter: and we'll be inviting them to... spot the loony. 

presenter: yes? quite right ... a viewer from preston there who's pointed out correctly that the entire panel are loonies. five points to preston there, and on to our first piece of film. it's about mountaineering and remember you have to... spot the loony! 

voice over: the legendary south face of ben medhui, dark ... forbidding... 

presenter: yes, well done, mrs nesbitt of york, spotted the loony in 1.8 seconds. 

presenter: no ... i must ask you please not to ring in until you've seen all the photos. 

presenter: yes, you're right. the answer was, of course, number two! 

presenter: and this time it's the thrilling medieval romance 'ivanoe'... a stirring story of love and war, violence and chivalry, set midst the pageantry and splendour of thirteenth-century england. all you have to do is, 'spot the loony'. 

none: caption: 'ivanoe' 

presenter: yes, well done, mrs l of leicester, mrs b of buxton and mrs g of gotwick, the loony was of course the writer, sir walter scott. 

scott: i didn't write that! sounds more like dickens... 

dickens: you bastard! 

<scene rival documentaries>

first producer: was sir walter scott a loony, or was he the greatest flowering of the early nineteenth-century romantic tradition? the most underestimated novelist of the nineteenth century... 

first producer: . . . or merely a disillusioned and embittered man ... 

second producer: excuse me ... 

second producer: can i borrow that, please. 

first producer: ... yes. 

second producer: thank you. 

second producer: the forestry commission systematically replanted this entire area... 

first producer: excuse me. 

second producer: sh! that's forty thousand acres of virgin forest. by 1980 this will have risen to two hundred thousand acres of soft woods. in commercial terms, a coniferous cornucopia... an evergreen el dorado... 

second producer: ... a tree-lined treasure trove ... no ... a fat fir-coned future for the financiers ... but what of the cost ... 

first producer: it's mine! 

second producer: go away ... in human terms? who are the casualties? 

first producer: for this was sir walter scott's country. many of his finest romances, such as 'guy mannering' and 'redgauntlet'... 

second producer: give that back! 

first producer: no. 

first producer: scott showed himself to be not only a fine... 

second producer: the spruces and flowers of this forest will be used to create a whole new industry here in... 

first producer: ... also a writer of humour and... 

second producer: britain's timber resources are being used up at a rate of... 

first producer: one man who knew scott was angus tinker. 

tinker: much of scott's greatest work, and i'm thinking here particularly of 'heart of midlothian' and 'old mortality' for example, was concerned with... 

voice: forestry research here has shown that the wholly synthetic soft timber fibre can be created... 

voice: and the pines, and even some of the deciduous hardwoods. 

none: caption: 'a forestry expert' 

forestry expert: this new soft-timber fibre would totally replace the plywoods, hardboards and chipboards at present dominating the... 

first producer: in the waverley novels... scott was constantly concerned to protect a way of life... 

first producer: ....safeguarding nationalist traditions and aspiration, within the necessary limitations of the gothic novel... 

toogood: then... theen... the... the end! the end. 

voice over: next week on 'book at bedtime', jeremy toogood will be reading anna sewell's black bu...bue...burton...blakc bottoon... 

<scene 'dad's doctors' (trail)>

continuity voice: tomorrow night comedy returns to bbc tv with a new series of half-hour situation comedies for you to spot the winners. ronnie thompson stars in 'dad's doctor'... 

none: superimposed caption: 'dad's doctor' 

continuity voice: ... the daffy exploits of the ramc training school. he's in charge of a group of mad medicos, and when they run wild it's titty jokes galore. 

continuity voice: week two sees the return of the wacky exploits of the oddest couple you've ever seen - yes, 'dad's pooves'... 

<scene 'dad's pooves' (trail)>

none: superimposed caption: 'dad's pooves' 

continuity voice: ... the kooky oddball laugh-a-minute fun-a-plenty world of unnatural sexual practices. 

none: superimposed caption: 'the ratings game' 

continuity voice: edie phillips-bong plays kevin vole, the programme planner with a problem and his comic attempts to pass the time. week six sees the return of 'up the palace'... 

none: superimposed caption: 'up the palace' 

continuity voice: ... the zany exploits of a wacky queen, and that's followed by 'limestone, dear limestone'... 

none: superimposed caption: 'limestone dear limestone' 

continuity voice: ... the wacky days of the late pleistocene era when much of britain's rock strata was being formed. all this and less on 'comedy ahoy'. but now, bbc television is closing down for the night. don't forget to switch off your sets. goodnight. 

<scene thames tv introduction>

david hamilton: good evening. we've got an action packed evening for you tonight on thames, but right now here's a rotten old bbc programme. 

announcer: and now... 

it's man: it's... 

<scene 'light entertainment awards'>

none: superimposed captions: 

none: 'the british showbiz awards' 

none: 'presented by hrh the dummy princess margaret' 

<scene dickie attenborough>

dickie: ladies and gentlemen, mr chairman, friends of the society, your dummy royal highness. once again, the year has come full circle, and for me there can be no greater privilege, and honour, than to that to which it is my lot to have befallen this evening. there can be no finer honour than to welcome into our midst tonight a guest who has not only done only more than not anyone for our society, but nontheless has only done more. he started in the film industry in 1924, he started again in 1946, and finally in 1963. he has been dead for four years, but he has not let that prevent him from coming here this evening. 

dickie: ladies and gentlemen, no welcome could be more heartfelt than that which i have no doubt you will all want to join with me in giving this great showbiz stiff. ladies and gentlemen, to read the nominations for the light entertainment award, the remains of the late sir alan waddle. 

<scene the oscar wilde sketch>

none: superimposed caption: 'london 1895' 

none: superimposed caption: 'the residence of mr oscar wilde' 

prince: my congratulations, wilde. your latest play is a great success. the whole of london's talking about you. 

oscar: there is only one thing in the world worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about. 

prince: very very witty ... very 

prince: very 

prince: witty. 

whistler: there is only one thing in the world worse than being witty, and that is not being witty. 

oscar: i wish i had said that. 

whistler: you will, oscar, you will. 

oscar: your majesty, have you met james mcneill whistler? 

prince: yes, we've played squash together. 

oscar: there is only one thing worse than playing squash together, and that is playing it by yourself. 

oscar: i wish i hadn't said that. 

whistler: you did, oscar, you did. 

prince: i've got to get back up the palace. 

oscar: your majesty is like a big jam doughnut with cream on the top. 

prince: i beg your pardon? 

oscar: um ... it was one of whistler's. 

whistler: i never said that. 

oscar: you did, james, you did. 

whistler: ... well, your highness, what i meant was that, like a doughnut, um, your arrival gives us pleasure and your departure only makes us hungry for more. 

whistler: your highness, you are also like a stream of bat's piss. 

prince: what? 

whistler: it was one of wilde's. one of wilde's. 

oscar: it sodding was not! it was shaw! 

shaw: i ... i merely meant, your majesty, that you shine out like a shaft of gold when all around is dark. 

prince: oh. 

oscar: your majesty is like a dose of clap. 

whistler: before you arrive - before you arrive is pleasure, and after is a pain in the dong. 

prince: what? 

oscar and whistler: one of shaw's, one of shaw's. 

shaw: you bastards. um ... what i meant, your majesty, what i meant ... 

oscar: we've got him, jim. 

whistler: come on, shaw-y. 

oscar: come on, shaw-y. 

shaw: i merely meant ... 

whistler: let's have a bit of wit, then, man. 

oscar: come on, shaw-y 

oscar: . 

<scene david niven's fridge>

dickie: ladies and gentlemen, seldom can it have been a greater pleasure and privilege than it is for me now to announce that the next award gave me the great pleasure and privilege of asking a man without whose ceaseless energy and tireless skill the british film indusrty would be today. i refer of course to my friend and colleague, mr david niven. 

dickie: this is the fridge in which david keeps most of his milk, butter and eggs. what a typically selfless gesture, that he should send this fridge, of all his fridges, to be with us tonight. 

<scene pasolini's film 'the third test match'>

dickie: before we hear the joint winner, let's see the one that came sixth. let us see pier paolo pasolini's latest film. 

first cricketer: there's lots of people making love, but no mention af geoff boyott's average. 

pasolini: who is-a geoff boycott? 

none: superimposed caption: 'pier paolo pasolini' 

second cricketer: and in t'film, we get fred titmus... 

pasolini: si, titmus, si, si... 

none: superimposed caption: 'yorkshire' 

second cricketer: ...the symbol of man's regeneration through radical marxism...fair enough...but we never once get a chance to see him turn his off-breaks on that brisbane sticky. 

third cricketer: aye, and what were all that dancing through ray illingworth's innings? forty-seven not out and the bird comes up and feed him some grapes! 

<scene new brain from curry's>

first zambesi: what's on the other side? 

dickie attenborough: nobody could be prouder than... 

second zambesi: ugh! 

first zambesi: um, shall we go down and give blood? 

second zambesi: oh, i don't want a great bat flapping round my neck. 

first zambesi: they don't do it like that! they take it from your arm! 

second zambesi: i can't give it. i caught swamp fever in the tropics. 

first zambesi: you've never even been to the tropics. you've never been south of sidcup. 

second zambesi: you can catch it off lampposts. 

first zambesi: catch what? 

second zambesi: i don't know, i'm all confused. 

first zambesi: you ought to go and see a psychiatrist. you're a loony. you might even need a new brain. 

second zambesi: oh, i couldn't afford a whole new brain. 

first zambesi: well, you could get one of those curry's brains. 

second zambesi: how much are they? 

first zambesi: battery lights, dynamo lights, rear lights, brains - here we are... 

second zambesi: i'm still confused. 

first zambesi: oh, there's a nice one here, thirteen-and-six, it's one of curry's own brains. 

none: caption: 'old sketch written before decimalisation' 

second zambesi: that one looks nice, what's that? 

first zambesi: that's a mudguard! 

second zambesi: it's only eight bob. 

none: caption: '1np = 2½op' 

first zambesi: aw, i think it's worth the extra five bob for the brain. i'll give them a ring. 

second zambesi: oh, that was quick. come in. 

man: er, hello mr and mrs and mrs zambesi? 

first zambesi: yes, that's right. are you the man from curry's? 

man: no, i've just come to say that he's on his way. would you sign this please. 

man: thank you very much. 

man: thank you. sorry to bother you. 

first zambesi: thank you. 

man: thank you. 

man: um, he's just coming now. 

second zambesi: come in! 

man: here he is. 

first zambesi: hello ... hello ... 

second zambesi: i'm not buying one from him, he doesn't give you confidence. 

first zambesi: he doesn't give me any confidence at all - he's obviously a dummy. i'll ring curry's. 

second zambesi: come in. 

salesman: good morning - mr and mrs and mrs zambesi? 

second zambesi: yes, that's right. 

first zambesi: yes, that's right ... 

first zambesi: yes that's right. 

salesman: all right, rutherford, i'll take over. 

second zambesi: oh, that's nice. 

salesman: yes, we sell a lot of these. right, shall we try a fitting? 

second zambesi: oh, do i have to have an operation? 

salesman: no, madam, you just strap it on. 

second zambesi: doesn't it go inside my head? 

salesman: not the roadster, madam, no. you're thinking of the brainette major. 

second zambesi: how much is that? 

salesman: forty-four-and-six. 

none: caption: '44/6d = £2.22½p' 

second zambesi: oh no, it's not worth it. 

salesman: not with the curry's surgery we use, no, madam. 

salesman: now then. the best bet is the bertrand russell super silver. that's a real beauty - 250 quid plus hospital treatment. 

first zambesi: oooh, that's a lot. 

salesman: it's colour. right. 

salesman: one, two, three, testing, testing. 

second zambesi: mince pie for me, please. 

first zambesi: what did she say that for? 

salesman: quiet please. it's not adjusted yet. 

second zambesi: oh, i am enjoying this rickshaw ride. i've been a tory all my life, my life, my life. good morning mr presley. how well you look, you look very well ... our cruising speed is 610 miles per hour ... well well well porridge ... well well well, well, hello hello dear ... hello dear! 

salesman: right, one, two, three ... 

second zambesi: ... eight, seven, 

second zambesi: four. 

first zambesi: oh, she never knew that before. 

salesman: quiet please. mrs zambesi, who wrote the theory of relativity? 

first zambesi: i know! i know. 

salesman: quiet, please! 

second zambesi: einstane ... einstone ... einsteen ... einston ... einstin ... einsten ... einstein. 

salesman: good. 

second zambesi: noël einstein. 

salesman: right. that'll be 13/6d please. 

first zambesi: that's marvelous. 

salesman: she can take it off at night, unless she wants to read, of course. and don't ask her too many questions because it will get hot. if you do have any trouble here is my card. 

salesman: good bye. 

first zambesi: thank you very much. 

man: he's gone now. 

first zambesi: shall we go down and give blood? 

second zambesi: yes, please mr roosevelt, but try and keep the noise to a minimum. 

first zambesi: i'll go and get your coat for you. 

second zambesi: i'm quite warm in this stick of celery, thank you, senator muskie. 

second zambesi: stapling machine, mr clarke. 

first zambesi: new brain. 

second zambesi: stapling machine, mrs worral. 

first zambesi: are you sure that's working all right? 

second zambesi: yes, thank you dear. it's marvellous. i think if we can win one or two of the early primaries, we could split the urban republican vote wide open. 

first zambesi: um...here we are then. 

second zambesi: well being president of the united states is something that i shall have to think about. 

<scene blood donor>

samson: blood donors that way, please. 

donor: oh thank you very much 

samson: thank you. 

samson: no. there is no such thing as a urine bank. 

grimshaw: please. 

samson: no. we have no call for it. we've quite enough of it without volunteers coming in here donating it. 

grimshaw: just a specimen. 

samson: no, we don't want a specimen. we either want your blood or nothing. 

grimshaw: i'll give you some blood if you'll give me... 

samson: what? 

grimshaw: a thing to do some urine in. 

samson: no, no, just go away please. 

grimshaw: anyway, i don't want to give you any blood. 

samson: fine, well you don't have to, you see, just go away. 

grimshaw: can i give you some spit? 

samson: no. 

grimshaw: sweat? 

grimshaw: earwax? 

samson: no, look, this is a blood bank - all we want is blood. 

grimshaw: all right, i'll give you some blood. 

samson: wher did you get that? 

grimshaw: today. it's today's. 

samson: what group is it? 

grimshaw: what groups are there? 

samson: there's a... 

grimshaw: it's a. 

samson: wait a moment. it's mine. this blood is mine! what are you doing with it? 

grimshaw: i found it. 

samson: you 

samson: found 

samson: it? you stole it out of my body, didn't you? 

grimshaw: no. 

samson: no wonder i'm feeling off-colour. 

samson: give that back. 

grimshaw: it's mine. 

samson: it is not yours. you stole it. 

grimshaw: never. 

samson: give it back to me. 

grimshaw: all right. but only if i can give urine. 

samson: ...get in the queue. 

<scene international wife-swapping>

rickman: good afternoon and welcome to wife-swapping from redcar. and the big news this morning is that the british boy boris rodgers has succeeded in swapping his nine-stone welsh-born wife for a ford popular and a complete set of dickens. well now, i can see they're ready at the start and so let's go now over for the start of the 3.30. 

rickman: and first let's catch up with the latest news of the betting. 

none: superimposed captions: 

none: 'no. 12 betty parkinson 

voice over: number 12 betty parkinson 7 to 4 on favourite, number 27 mrs colyer 9 to 4, 5 to 1 bar those. 

rickman: and here's the starter mrs alec marsh, 

rickman: and they're off. 

rickman: and mrs rodgers is the frirst to show, there she goes into mr johnson's, and mrs johnson across too mr colyer, followed closely by mrs casey on the inside. mrs parkinson, number 12, going well there into mr webster's from the co-op, mrs colyer's making ground fast after a poor start, she's out of mr casey's into mr parkinson's, she's a couple og lengths ahead of mrs johnson who's still not out of mr casey's. mrs penguin and mrs colyer - these two now at the head of the field from mrs brown, mrs atkins, mrs parkinson, mrs warner and mrs rudd - all still at mr phillip's. mrs penguin making the running now, challenged strongly by mrs casey, mars casey coming very fast on the inside, it's going to be mrs casey coming from behind. now she's making a break on the outside, mrs penguin running...and at the line it's mrs casey who's got it by a short head from mrs penguin in second place, mrs parkinson in third, mrs rudd, mrs colyer, mrs warner and there's mrs griffiths who's remained unswapped. 

rickman: well, a very exciting race there, and i have with me now the man who owned and trained the winner, mrs casey - mr casey. well done, jack. 

mr casey: thank you, john. 

rickman: well, were you at all surprised about this, jack? 

mr casey: no, not really, no she's been going very well in training, and at doncaster last week, and i fancy her very strongly for the cheltenham weekend. 

rickman: well, thank you very much indeed, jack. we must leave you now because it's time for the team event. 

peter: hello, and a very warm welcome from the tower ballroom suite at reading, where there's very little in it, they're neck and neck, crop and grummit, real rack and saddle, brick and bucket, horse and tooth, cap and thigh, arse over tip, they're absolutely birds of a feather, there's not a new pin in it, you couldn't get a melon between them. well, now, everything rests on the formation event and here come north west with the mambo. 

peter: maestro, take it away, please. 

frank bough: and now it's time for rugby league, and highlights of this afternoon's game between keighley and hull kingston rovers. 

eddie waring: well, good afternoon and as you can see, hull kingston rovers are well in the lead, it's a scrum down on the twenty-five, keighley's tom colyer with the put in, mrs colyer to be put. 

eddie waring: and there goes his wife into the scrum. and hull have got the heel against the head. doing nicely with this scrum, some very good packing here. warrington's picked her up, is he going to let her go, wrigley's with him, grand lad is this. 

eddie waring: well, that was right on the whistle, rovers walkin' it there, winnin' easily by twenty-six points to two. 

frank bough: just a reminder that on 'match of the day' tonight you can see highlights of two of this afternoon's big games. mrs robinson v manchester united and southampton v mr rogers, a rather unusual game that. and here's a late result...convetry nil, mr johnson's una three - coventry going down at home, there. just a little reminder that the next sport you can see on bbs 1 will be 9.20 on wednesday night, when 'wife swapping with coleman' comes live from my place. till then, goodnight. 

<scene credits of the year>

none: grandstand 

none: a bbc inside broadcast 

none: conceived written and performed by 

none: michael palin and mrs cleese 

none: eric idle and mrs palin 

none: john cleese and mrs jones 

none: terry gilliam and terry jones and mrs idle 

none: graham chapman and mr sherlock 

none: also appearing carol cleveland and mr and mrs and mrs zambesi 

none: caron gardner and mr a. 

none: make-up by miss gaffney and mr last 

none: costumes hazel pethig and mr clarke 

none: graphics by bob blagden and 'naughty' rosy 

none: animations by terry gilliam and rabbi colquhoun 

none: film cameraman alan featherstone and miss weston 

none: film editor mr ray millichope and his orchestra 

none: sound richard chubb and mrs lighting 

none: choreography by jean clarke and an unnamed man in esher 

none: designed by chris thompson and mrs armstrong-jones 

none: produced by ian macnaughton and 'dickie' 

none: a bbc tv and mrs thames production 

dickie: there they go, the credits of the year. credits that you and the society voted as the credits that brought the most credit to the society. sadly, the man who designed them cannot be with us tonight, as he is at home asleep, but we are going to wake him up and tell him the good news. 

dickie: are you there in bristol, arthur briggs...? 

briggs: oh, my god! 

dickie: and now for the moment you've all been waiting for... 

none: caption: the end 

dickie: no, not that moment. although that moment is coming, 

dickie: in 

dickie: a moment. the moment i'm talking about is the moment when we present the award for the cast with the most awards award, and this year is no exception. ladies and gentlemen will you join me and welcome please, the winners of this year's mountbatten trophy, showbusiness's highest accolade, the cast of the dirty vicar sketch. 

dickie: well now, let us see the performances which brought them this award. let us see the dirty vicar sketch. 

<scene the dirty vicar sketch>

first lady: have you seen lady windermere's new carriage, dear? 

second lady: absolutely enchanting! 

first lady: isn't it! 

chivers: the new vicar to see you, m'lady. 

first lady: send him in, chivers. 

chivers: certainly, m'lady. 

first lady: now, how is your tea, dear? a little more water perhaps? 

second lady: thank you. it is delightful as it is. 

chivers: the reverend ronald simms, the dirty vicar of st michael's ... ooh! 

vicar: cor, what a lovely bit of stuff. i'd like to get my fingers around those knockers. 

first lady: how do you find the vicarage? 

vicar: i like tits! 

first lady: oh vicar! vicar! 

vicar: oh my goodness. i do beg your pardon. how dreadful! the first day in my new parish, i completely ... so sorry! 

first lady: yes. never mind, never mind. chivers - send mary in with a new gown, will you? 

vicar: i do beg your pardon ... i must sit down. 

first lady: as i was saying, how do you find the new vicarage? 

vicar: oh yes, certainly, yes indeed, i find the grounds delightful, and the servants most attentive and particularly the little serving maid with the great big knockers, and... 

dickie: well, there we are, another year has been too soon alas ended and i think none more than myself can be happier at this time than i ... am. 

<scene >

<scene montgolfier brothers>

none: caption: 'the golden age of ballooning' 

none: caption: 'the beginnings' 

plumber: come on... come on... momentous ascent, the brothers took one last look at their craft, as it stood on the field of annencay. 

jacques: this is a great moment for us, joseph. 

joseph: it is a great moment for france. 

jacques: ah, oui! 

joseph: first ascent in a hot-air balloon, by the montgolfier brothers - 1783 ... i can see us now... just after montesquieu and just before mozart. 

jacques: i think i'll go and wash ... 

joseph: good luck. 

jacques: oh ... it's quite easy, really ... i just slap a little water on my face, then... 

joseph: no... good luck for tomorrow. 

jacques: oh i see, yes. you too. yours has been the work. 

joseph: let us hope for a safe ascent... and don't use my flannel. 

jacques: you know, when you showed me the plans in paris, i could not believe that we should be the first men who would fly. 

joseph: yes ... it's wonderful. 

jacques: i am so excited i could hardly wash. 

joseph: yes ... i too have had some difficulty washing these past few days. 

jacques: still, what is washing when we are on the verge of a great scientific breakthrough? 

joseph: jacques... 

jacques: yes, joseph... 

joseph: i have not been washing very thoroughly for many years now. 

jacques: what do you mean? you must have been washing your face? 

joseph: oh yes, my face, i wash my face... but my legs... my stomach ... my chest, they're filthy. 

jacques: well, i don't wash my stomach every day. 

joseph: ah, but you wash far more than me ... you are the cleaner of the montgolfier brothers. 

jacques: this is nothing, joseph... 

butler: monsieur montgolfier.. a mr parfitt to see you, sir. 

butler: a mr barklit, to see you, sir. 

mr bartlett: no! bartlett with a 't'. 

butler: barr ... at ... elett ... to see you, sir. 

mr bartlett: bartlett 

butler: barkit... 

mr bartlett: bartlett! 

butler: baffle... bartlett... a mr bartl 

butler: ett 

butler: to see you, sir. 

joseph: i don't want to see anyone, o'toole... tell him to go away. 

butler: thank you, sir. 

jacques: well, it's getting late. i must go and have a wash. 

joseph: what will you be washing? 

jacques: oh ... just my face and neck ... perhaps my feet... and possibly ... but no ... no ... lock up the plans, joseph... tomorrow they will make us the toast of france. 'the first ascent by the montgolfier brothers in a balloon'. just after ballcock and just before bang... what a position! 

voice over: so, on june 7th, 1783, the montgolfier brothers had a really good wash ... starting on his face and arms, joseph michael montgolfier went on to scrub his torso, his legs and his naughty bits, before rinsing his whole body. that june night, he and his brother between them washed seventeen square feet of body area. they used a kilo and a half of catholic soap and nearly fourteen gallons of nice hot water. it was indeed an impressive sight. 

voice over: next week on 'the golden age of ballooning', we examine the work of girlsher and coxwell, the english balloonists who ascended to a height of seven miles in 1862 without washing. there is also a book called 'the golden age of ballooning' published by the bbc to coincide with the series. it's in an attractive hand-tooled binding, is priced £5 and failure to buy it will make you liable to a £50 fine or three months' imprisonment. there's also a record of someone reading the book of 'the golden age of ballooning', a crochet-work bedspread with the words 'the golden age of ballooning' on it, available from the bbc, price £18 or five months' imprisonment and there are matching toilet-seat covers and courtesy mats with illustrations of many of the baboons mentioned. also available is a life-size model frog which croaks the words 'the golden age of ballooning' and an attractive bakelite case for storing motorway construction plans in, made in the shape of a balloon. and now, another chance to see a repeat of this morning's re-run of last night's second showing of episode two of the award-winning series 'the golden age of ballooning'. 

none: animation: 

antoinette: oh joseph, all you think about is balloons... all you talk about is balloons. your beautiful house is full of bits and pieces of balloons... your books are all about balloons... every time you sing a song, it is in some way obliquely connected with balloons... everything you eat has to have 'balloon' incorporated in the title... your dogs are an called 'balloonno'... you tie balloons to your ankles in the evenings. 

joseph: i don't do that! 

antoinette: well, no, you don't do that, but you do duck down and shout 'hey! balloons!' when there are none about. your whole life is becoming obsessively balloonic, you know. why do i have to hang from this bloody gas bag all day? don't i mean anything to you? 

joseph: oh ma cherie, you mean more to me than any heavier than air dirigible could ever... 

antoinette: oh there you go again! 

joseph: don't waggle! 

jacques: i've run your bath for you, joseph. 

jacques: oh... i'm so sorry, i didn't realize. 

joseph: it's all right, we've done the difficult bit. 

jacques: well, don't forget we have our special guest coming this evening. 

joseph: oh? 

jacques: don't tell me you have forgotten already. the man who is giving us thousands of francs for our experiments. 

joseph: what man? 

jacques: louis xiv! 

joseph: isn't he dead? 

jacques: evidently not... 

joseph: all right, i'll be round. 

jacques: oh, and joseph... 

joseph: yes, jacques? 

jacques: you will... wash... won't you? 

joseph: yes, of course! 

none: caption: 'later that evening' 

<scene louis xiv>

butler: his royal majesty, louis xiv of france. 

jacques: your majesty. it's a great privilege. welcome to our humble abode. 

louis: it's er... very nice to be here. 

jacques: o'toole. 

butler: sir? 

jacques: claret for his majesty please. 

butler: there's a mr barttett outside again, sir. 

jacques: not now, i can't see him, we have the king of france here. 

butler: yes, sir. 

jacques: your majesty. you had a pleasant journey, i trust? 

louis: yes... yes, oh definitely... yes... yes. oh aye, aye. 

jacques: you have come from paris? 

louis: where? 

jacques: from paris... you have travelled from paris? 

louis: oh yes, we've come from paris... yes... yes, yes, we've just come from... er... paris... yes. 

jacques: yes, o'toole? 

butler: which one is the claret, sir? 

jacques: the claret is in the decanter. 

butler: the wooden thing? 

jacques: no no... the glass thing... the glass decanter with the round glass stopper. 

butler: oh yes, behind the door. 

jacques: no no... on the sideboard. 

butler: the sideboard? 

jacques: the sideboard... yes. look... you go into the salle à manger ... the 

jacques: dining room 

jacques: , right? - and the sideboard is on your left, by the wall, beside the master's portrait. 

butler: ah! above the mirror, sir? 

jacques: no! no! the mirror is on the other side. it's 

jacques: opposite 

jacques: the mirror. 

butler: but that's the 

butler: table 

butler: , sir. 

jacques: no... you don't go as 

jacques: far 

jacques: as the table. you go into the room, right?... on your right is the door to the orangery, straight ahead of you is the door to the library, and to your left is the sideboard. 

butler: ah, yes, i see, sir... 

jacques: and the claret is on top of the sideboard, to the left. 

butler: on the left. 

jacques: yes... 

butler: as one looks at it, sir? 

jacques: yes. 

butler: i see, sir, thank you. 

jacques: will you please tell monsieur joseph our guest is here. 

jacques: i'm sorry about that, your majesty. 

butler: apparently, sir, there is a plan to build a canal between the two egyptian towns of.., 

jacques: not now, o'toole! 

louis: well... er... mr montgolfier... let's not beat around the bush ... my... dukes and i are very busy men. what we'd like to do is see the plans of your proposed balloon... if that's at all possible. 

jacques: certainly, your majesty... i have them here ready prepared. 

louis: oh, great .... then... what we would like to do ... is er... to take them back with us for the royal archives of er... 

louis: france, aye. 

jacques: well, it is indeed a great honour your majesty, that i cannot refuse. 

louis: right! ok! let's get 'em. 

joseph: just a moment! 

jacques: joseph! 

joseph: this man is not louis xiv! 

jacques: joseph! are you out of your mind! 

joseph: i've been looking it up in my bath. louis xiv died in 1717. it's now 1783! answer me that! 

louis: did i say louis xiv? oh, sorry, i meant louis xv... louis xv. 

joseph: he 

joseph: died in 1774! 

louis: all right, louis 

louis: xvi 

louis: !... listen to me, smartarse, when you're king of france,... you've got better things to do than go around all day remembering your bloody number. 

joseph: aaaaaarh! 

louis: right! you want to argue about numbers? 

jacques: er... no, no. 

louis: right, well... lets get hold of the plans for the royal archives. we've got to get back to... er... 

first duke: paris. 

louis: paris by tonight so get a move on.. 

joseph: aaaargh! ow! ooooohh! 

butler: i got as far as the sideboard, sir... 

joseph: stop them... oh! ah... oooooohh! 

butler: no news on the canal i'm afraid, sir, but apparently in india they're thinking of building a railway between the towns of lahore... 

joseph: stop... ow! stop them, o'toole for... oh! shit! god's sake... stop them, they've got the plans! 

voice over: will louis xvi get away with the montgolfiers' precious plans? is sixteen years of work to be stolen by this suspect sovereign? is france really in the grip of a glaswegian monarch? watch next week's episode of 'the golden age of ballooning'... now! 

sir dividends: ... but now that the government has collapsed ... and shown itself incapable of providing any sort of unifying force, i feel we do need the stability and the breathing space that a military presence would provide. 

presenter: lord interest? 

none: superimposed caption: 'lord interest' 

lord interest: oh yes... i agree that the army should take over, but i think it should not interfere with the programme of street executions, which i feel have been the shot in the arm that the british economy so desperately needed. 

presenter: the montgolfier brothers' plans did indeed turn up... six months later, and a long way from paris, at the court of king george iii of england. 

<scene george iii>

none: caption: 'the court of george iii, 1781' 

reader: ... titty was very worried. where could mary be? he looked everywhere. under the stones and behind the bushes... and mr squirrel helped him by looking up in the trees, and mr badger helped him by looking under the ground... 

reader: ... and so, your majesty, we the commons do herein crave and beseech that... 

george iii: enter! 

lord north: your majesty... louis xviii is here! 

george iii: who is louis xviii? 

lord north: the king of france, your majesty! this is a great moment to have, sir. 

george iii: there is no louis xviii. 

lord north: he craves your majesty's pardon. he has had a long journey here and miscounted... he is louis xvii. 

george iii: louis xvi is dead already? 

lord north: aaaaaaaaaaaaghh! oh my god! oh... ah... oh christ! 

louis: your majesty... i am louis xvi as you so rightly say, and i don't want to muck about. i have a wee proposition which could make the name of george iv the most respected in europe... 

george iii: george 

george iii: iii 

louis: george iii! sorry. where can we talk? 

lord north: oh! god! ... did you see that?... oh!... aaaargh! oh dear! 

george iii: we shall have a state banquet at st james' palace! 

louis: no no, look, i can't hang about. it's take it or leave... we got to get back to... er... 

first duke: paris. 

louis: paris, by tonight... 

george iii: must you leave us, louis? 

louis: i'd rather just sell the plans and nip off, georgie boy. 

george iii: all right... we will buy the plans... if you will undertake to disengage your troops in america. 

louis: do what? 

george iii: and, i shall give you £10,000 for the plans... 

louis: ten thousand 

louis: pounds 

louis: ! right, well, we'll disengage the, urn, you know... like you said - we'll disengage 'em... tell you what, then, i'll put a duke on to it... ok? right! 

lord north: that's the worst thing you can do to anybody. 

louis: you asked for it, sonny. 

lord north: you could have broken my bloody nose! 

george iii: north! please! 

lord north: you saw it! it was right on the bone. 

george iii: north! will you send for the duke of portland ... we have a financial matter to discuss. 

lord north: well, it really hurt. 

louis: no, look, i think it's better if you give the money to us. we're going back. we've got a bag. 

george iii: no, no... don't worry, louis. we shall talk to your monsieur necker. 

louis: ah! well, actually, we'd rather you didn't... we've been having a wee bit of trouble with him... you know what i mean? 

george iii: monsieur necker? the man who introduced so many valuable reforms and who proved so popular despite his opposition to mirabeau's policy of issuing 'assignats'? 

none: superimposed caption: 'this speech has been verified by encyclopaedia britannica' 

louis: er... aye, yeah... the trouble is he's been drinking a bit recently ... you' know, fourteen lagers with his breakfast... that sort of thing. 

george iii: well... very well, louis... 

joseph: just a moment! 

louis: oh, christ! 

george iii: what are you doing? 

joseph: i am joseph montgolfier, the inventor of the fire balloon. the man before you is an impostor! 

george iii: ooh! i am not ... honestly! 

joseph: no, not you, your majesty 

joseph: this man - this louis, the so-called king of france man. which number did you give this time - louis the 23rd? 

louis: i got it right! 

joseph: i bet you took a few guesses. 

louis: listen, you spotty sassenach pillock.. 

dr hamer: your majesty! the ronettes are here. 

bartlett: and mr bartlett. 

george iii: oh dear, i'm not supposed to go mad till 1800! 

antoinette: joseph has been gone for six months now ... we have heard nothing! 

jacques: he can look after himself. 

antoinette: but he had only on a towel, you know. 

jacques: antoinette... from now on there is only one montgolfier brother. 

antoinette: but louis xiv has the plans... you must wait until joseph returns. 

jacques: let me put my tongue in your mouth. 

antoinette: what do you mean? 

jacques: we're supposed to be french, aren't we? 

antoinette: no, i mean what are the plans which joseph after is chasing? 

jacques: please, let me put it in a little way. 

antoinette: oh, jacques, ze 

antoinette: plans 

antoinette: ! 

jacques: i take it out if you don't like it. 

butler: are you sure the claret was on the left of the sideboard, sir? 

jacques: yes, o'toole, it's always been there. 

butler: well i'll look for one more month, sir. 

butler: by the way sir, mr bartlett has gone, sir. he said he couldn't wait any longer. 

jacques: thank you, o'toole... 

butler: not at all, sir... i've enjoyed being in it... 

jacques: right! 

butler: thank you, sir... mam'selle. 

butler: by the way, sir, mr bartlett has gone, sir. 

butler: he said he couldn't wait any longer, sir. 

jacques: thank you, o'toole. 

butler: not at all, sir ... i've enjoyed being in it. 

butler: thank you, sir ... mam'selle. 

audience: more! more! more! etc .... etc .... etc .... 

voice over: george iii was arranged and composed by neil innes. he is available from the bbc price £4 or eight months' imprisonment. 

<scene party political broadcast on behalf of the norwegian party>

voice over: that was episode three of 'the golden age of ballooning'. may i remind you that there's still time to get your 'golden age of ballooning' suppositories direct from the bbc, price £4.50, or £19 for a set of six. well, in a moment the bbc will be closing down for the night, but first, here is a party political broadcast on behalf of the norwegian party. 

norwegian: ik tvika nasai... 

none: subtitle: 'good evening' 

norwegian: ...stivianka sobjiord ki niyanska ik takka norge weginda zokiy yniet... 

none: subtitle: 'you may think it strange that we should be asking you to vote norwegian at the next election' 

norwegian: ...ik vietta nogiunda sti jibiora... 

none: subtitle: 'but consider the advantages' 

norwegian: in norge we hatta svinska offikiose buinni a gogik in europa. 

none: subtitle: 'in norway, we have one of the highest per cappa income rates in europe' 

norwegian: sti glikka in norge tijik dinstianna gikloosi stijioska kary. 

none: subtitle: 'we have an industrial re-investment rate of 14%' 

norwegian: e in norge we hatta siddinkarvo dikinik chaila osto tykka hennakska. 

none: subtitle: 'and girls with massive knockers!' 

norwegian: gikkiaski ungurden kola bijiusti stonosse. 

none: subtitle: 'honestly, they'll do anything for you' 

norwegian: hijiasgo biunderten ki yikilpa stivvora niski ofidae. 

none: subtitle: 'they'll go through the card' 

norwegian: e stavaskija, e stonioska. 

none: subtitle: 'you name it, they know it' 

norwegian: stingik oloshoyert okka in trondheim khi oyplitz... 

none: subtitle: 'but there's one in trondheim who can put her...' 

voice over: highlights of that broadcast will be discussed later by lord george-brown, ex-foreign secretary, mr sven olafson, the ex-norwegian minister of finance, sir charles ollendorff, ex-chairman of the norwegian trades council, mr hamish mclavell, the mayor of wick, the nearest large town to norway, mrs betty norday, whose name sounds remarkably like norway, mr brian waynor, whose name is an anagram of norway, mr and mrs ford, whose name sounds like fiord, of which there are a lot in norway, ron and christine boslo... 

<scene zeppelin>

none: caption: 'the golden age of ballooning' 

none: caption: 'episode six: ferdinand von zeppelin - pioneer of the airship' 

voice over: ferdinand von zeppelin was born in constance in 1838, the brother of barry zeppelin, the least talented of the fourteen zeppelin brothers. 

voice over: meanwhile for ferdinand von zeppelin, the year 1908 was a year of triumph. 

von bülow: herr zeppelin - it's wonderful! it's put ballooning right back on the map. 

zeppelin: it's not a 

zeppelin: balloon 

zeppelin: airship 

zeppelin: ... an airship ... d'you hear? 

von bülow: well, it's very nice anyway. 

tirpitz: tell me, what is the principle of these balloons? 

zeppelin: it's not a balloon! you stupid little thick-headed saxon git! it's not a balloon! balloons is for kiddy-winkies. if you want to play with balloons, get outside. 

tirpitz: aaaaaaaaaghhh! 

helmut: yorkshire ... pudding. a type of thick pancake, eaten with large ... 

hollweg: i hear you are to name the balloon after bismarck? 

zeppelin: bismarck? of course i'm not calling it after bismarck. it's a zeppelin. it's nothing to do with bloody bismarck! 

hollweg: surely he gave you some money for it? 

zeppelin: get outside! 

helmut: za... bag... lione... a sort of cream mouse... mousse of italian origin... 

von bülow: ferdinand... that was a minister of state you just threw out of the balloon. 

zeppelin: it's not a balloon! it's an airship! 

von bülow: all right, i'm sorry. 

zeppelin: all right - go and have a look! 

zeppelin: and you! 

helmut: zu... cchin... ni ... italian... ma... flows... 

helmut: with tiny pieces of sliced... 

mrs helmut: oh, look! it's the chancellor! 

helmut: what? prince von bülow? here? 

mrs helmut: ja! 

helmut: coming here? 

mrs helmut: no - he 

mrs helmut: is 

mrs helmut: here. 

helmut: oh, i must go and put my old uniform on. 

mrs helmut: he won't notice, helmut. he's dead. 

helmut: dead? here? 

mrs helmut: ja. in our sitting room. 

helmut: this is our sitting room, dear. 

mrs helmut: well, you know what i mean. 

helmut: room! 

mrs helmut: yes ... but it's a 

mrs helmut: kind 

mrs helmut: of sitting room. 

helmut: well... 

mrs helmut: look! 

helmut: which one is von bülow? 

mrs helmut: here ... look! 

helmut: oh, ja ... and admiral tirpitz! 

mrs helmut: ja. 

helmut: and von müller... and herr reichner... and hollweg and von graunberg... 

mrs helmut: that isn't graunberg - 

mrs helmut: that's 

mrs helmut: graunberg... das ist moltke... 

helmut: he's a lot older than i thought. 

mrs helmut: he's a clever man, ja. 

helmut: ... and zimmermann ... and kimpte... 

mrs helmut: what shall we do, helmut? 

helmut: we must ring the government. 

mrs helmut: this 

mrs helmut: the government, helmut. 

helmut: oh dear. 

mrs helmut: it is a great honour to have so many members of the government dead in our sitting room. 

helmut: drawing 

helmut: room. 

mrs helmut: ja, well... 

helmut: there are no members of the government dead in our sitting room. 

mrs helmut: ja, you know what i mean. 

helmut: perhaps i should make a little speech or something? 

mrs helmut: not a speech, helmut no... 

helmut: shall we make them a cup of tea? 

mrs helmut: it would be a waste of tea. 

helmut: but we must do something - so many important people in our drawing room - we must do 

helmut: something 

helmut: . 

mrs helmut: we could sort them out. 

helmut: and make a little list. 

mrs helmut: ja, ja. we could put the ministers for internal affairs over against the wall, and those for foreign here by the clock. 

helmut: and we can sort them out alphabetically? 

mrs helmut: nein, nein - just put the cleanest by the door. 

helmut: ja. 

mrs helmut: no, no! that's von bülow! he must go over here. 

helmut: that is my reading chair. 

mrs helmut: he is the reich chancellor of germany, helmut. 

helmut: all right ... but i think he would have been better up against the clock, you know. 

mrs helmut: no, he would not look nice under the clock. 

helmut: i did not say 

helmut: under 

helmut: against 

helmut: the clock. 

mrs helmut: well then we could not see the clock! 

helmut: we could put the minister for colonies under the clock. he's small. 

mrs helmut: no. colonies are 

mrs helmut: internal 

mrs helmut: education! 

helmut: soon we shall be able to make a list. 

mrs helmut: ja, ja, wait a minute! ... who's that by the cat litter? 

helmut: i don't know. i've never seen him before. 

mrs helmut: he is not a member of the government. get him out of here. put him in the drawing room. 

helmut: he's 

helmut: in 

helmut: the drawing room, my dear. 

mrs helmut: ja, well you know what i mean. 

helmut: put him in the sitting room. 

mrs helmut: ja, in, the sittng room, it's all the same. 

helmut: you can put him in the sitting room if he's in the drawing room. 

voice over: count ferdinand von zeppelin's behaviour on that flight in 1900 had incredible, far-reaching consequences, for one of the falling ministers 

voice over: producer and director of 'the golden age of ballooning'. 

none: animation: 

voice over: mr and mrs rita trondheim; reginald bo-sankway, who would be next to norway in a rhyming dictionary, if it included proper names, and if he pronounced his name like that. 

<scene >

<scene department store>

none: establishing shot of large harrods-type store. outside limousines and taxis are disgorging very rich customers. small doormen in enormously large coats opening door of cars. a man with his nose bandaged comes out of the store. one large car pulls softly up to the curb, and as small doorman (michael) opens its door, an enormously opulent lady (terry j) in furs gets out. the doorman holds the door open. she knees him in the groin and walks on into the store. chris quinn (eric) arrives on a bicycle. he parks the bicycle against the curb (the doorman flings it into the road) and goes into the outer hall of the store. he passes a couple leaving who also have noses bandaged. a gaggle of customers, mostly pepperpots, rush out. a very eager pepperpot lady shopper, going the other way, rushes between the two and bangs into a set of glass doors which have closed behind the gaggle. she cries out with pain clutching her nose and is escorted away by a large, coated attendant. chris quinn looks up at the list on the wall. it reads: 

none: basement: dangerous gases, viruses, contagious diseases, restaurant and toilet fixings. 

none: ground floor: menswear, boyswear, effeminate goods hall, ill health foods. 

none: mezzanine: tableware, kitchen goods, soft furnishings, hard furnishings, rock-hard furnishings. 

none: first floor: complaints. 

none: second floor: cosmetics, jewellery, electrical, satire. 

none: third floor: nasal injuries hall, other things. 

none: fourth floor: granite hall - rocks, shales, alluvial deposits, felspar, carpathians, andes, urals, mining requisites, atom-splitting service. 

none: fifth floor: complaints. 

none: sixth floor: complaints. 

none: seventh floor: leather goods. 

none: eighth floor: roof garden. 

none: ninth floor: television aerials. 

none: tenth floor: fresh air, clouds, occasional periods of sunshine. 

lady: yes this looks the sort of thing. may i just try it? 

assistant: certainly, madam. 

lady: oh! sorry! 

lady: so 

lady: yes that's fine. 

assistant: is that on account, madam? 

lady: yes. 

<scene buying an ant>

chris: hello? hello? 

first assistant: oh, i'm terribly sorry... 

first assistant: i thought you were someone else. 

chris: oh i see, yes. 

first assistant: i'm sorry sir, can i help you? 

chris: yes, yes, as a matter of fact you can, actually i was interested in the possibility... of purchasing one of your ... can i ask who you thought i was? 

first assistant: what? 

chris: who did you think i was... just then... when you thought i was somebody. 

first assistant: oh, it's no one you'd know, sir. 

chris: well i might know them. 

first assistant: it's possible, obviously, but i think it's really unlikely. 

chris: well, i know quite a lot... 

first assistant: i mean he's hardly likely to move in your circles, sir... 

chris: why, is he very 

chris: rich 

chris: ? 

first assistant: oh, no, i didn't mean that, sir. 

chris: is he a lord or something? 

first assistant: oh, no, not at all. 

chris: well look, this is very easy to settle. what is his name?. 

chris: what is his name? 

first assistant: well... er... 

chris: yes? 

first assistant: michael ellis. 

chris: who? 

chris: i see. 

first assistant: do you know him, sir? 

chris: er ... michael ellis. michael ellis... 

first assistant: you don't 

chris: well, i don't remember the name. 

first assistant: i think you would remember him, sir. 

chris: why do you say that? 

first assistant: well, would you remember a man six foot nine inches high, fortyish, and he's got a long scar from here to here and absolutely no nose? 

chris: ... oh, i think i do remember somebody like that... 

first assistant: well, that's not michael ellis. 

chris: what? 

first assistant: he's a small man about this high with a high-pitched voice. 

chris: right, i'm not going to buy an ant from you now. 

first assistant: oh, no, please. 

chris: no. you've not been properly trained. i demand another assistant. 

first assistant: oh, no, come on... please... 

chris: no, i want 

chris: another assistant 

chris: . 

first assistant: all right! i'll get another assistant. 

chris: thank you. 

first assistant: hello sir, can i help you, sir? 

chris: no, i want a 

chris: different 

chris: assistant. 

first assistant: i 

first assistant: am 

first assistant: sir, i'm mr abanazar, sir. 

chris: don't be silly. 

first assistant: oh no, please please please let me help you... 

chris: no! i want another assistant. 

first assistant: oh, no, come on, please... 

chris: if you don't give me another assistant... 

first assistant: no, no, i'll be very good, sir, really. 

first assistant: good morning, sir... how are you, sir... bit parky outside today... isn't it, sir... ? a very nice suit you've got there, sir... you had a very close shave this morning, sir... 

chris: right i'm going! 

first assistant: no, no, please... 

second assistant: woooooo ....ooooooo... 

first assistant: it's not him! 

chris: ! 

first assistant: oh please, give him a chance! 

chris: no! 

second assistant: yes, sir, can i be of any assistance? 

chris: oh no, come on, don't try that! 

second assistant: i'm sorry, sir... try what? 

chris: you know perfectly well what i mean. 

second assistant: i'm afraid i don't, sir. 

chris: you were down behind there with a silly mask on going wooo-ooo... 

second assistant: i don't think i was, sir. 

chris: all right, get the manager. 

second assistant: there seems to have been some sort of misunderstanding, sir. 

chris: manager! 

first assistant: this is the manager, sir. 

second assistant: yes, i'm the manager. 

second assistant: it's a smashing store this, i can't recommend it too highly, well-lit, rat-free. it's a joy to manage. oh yes, the freshest haddock in london, second floor, third floor ribena, ants here, television and flame throwers over there, behind them our dinner-wagon exhibition closes at six... 

first assistant: quick! 

real manager: yes, sir? can i help you, sir? 

chris: yes, i want to complain about the assistants on this counter. 

real manager: i'm sorry to hear that, sir, which ones? 

chris: well, they're hiding now. 

real manager: sir? 

chris: they're hiding, down there behind the counter. 

real manager: i see, sir. 

real manager: ... well... there's nobody down here, sir. 

chris: they must have crawled through here, and made their escape through 'soft toys'. 

real manager: yes, of course. 

chris: they were wearing masks and making silly noises and one of them pretended to be the manager. he spoke like this.. 

real manager: ah! i think i've got it, sir, i think i've got it! it's rag week. 

chris: ragweek? 

real manager: yes, you know, for charity, sir. 

chris: oh! i see. some local college or university? 

real manager: no, no it's the 

real manager: store's 

real manager: rag week. 

chris: the 

chris: store's 

chris: rag week? 

real manager: yes. the senior staff don't join in much - it's for the trainees really... 

chris: it's not very good for business is it? 

real manager: oh, it's for charity, sir. people are awfully good about it, you know. 

chris: yes, yes, of course. 

real manager: right, sir, i'll get you a senior assistant - ants, was it? 

chris: yes, please. 

real manager: could you look after this gentleman, mr snetterton? 

chris: i don't want him! 

first assistant: oh 

first assistant: please! 

first assistant: give me a chance! 

real manager: all right - mr hartford! 

hartford: yes - good morning, sir - can i help you? 

chris: yes, please, i'm interested in buying an ant. 

hartford: ah yes - and what price were you thinking of paying, sir? 

chris: oh, well, i hadn't actually got as far as that. 

hartford: well sir, they start about half a p. but they can go as high as three p. or even three and a half p. for a champion - inflation i'm afraid... 

chris: well, i should think one about one and a half p., please. 

hartford: ah yes, well you should get a very serviceable little animal for that, sir. quite frankly the half pence ones are a bit on the mangy side ... what length was sir thinking of? 

chris: oh ... medium? 

hartford: medium. medium. here we are, sir. 

hartford: that one there is an ayrshire, and that one there is a king george bitch i think ... and that one killing the little flitbat is an afghan. 

chris: that's a nice one. 

hartford: let's see how you get on with him, eh? 

hartford: ah yes, he likes you. he's taken to you. 

chris: what do you feed them on? 

hartford: blancmange. 

chris: blancmange? 

hartford: i'm sorry. i don't know why i said that. no, you don't feed them at all. 

chris: well, what do they live on? 

hartford: they don't. they die. 

chris: they die? 

hartford: well of course they do, if you don't feed them. 

chris: i don't understand. 

hartford: you let them die, then you buy another one. it's much cheaper than feeding them and that way you have a constant variety of little companions. 

chris: oh, i see. 

hartford: that's the advantage of owning an ant. 

chris: right, well i'll take this one. oh dear, i've dropped it... 

hartford: never mind. here's another one. 

chris: is there anything else i'll need? 

hartford: yes, sir - you'll need an ant house. 

hartford: this is the model we recommend, sir. 

chris: won't it get out of there? 

hartford: yes. 

chris: well what's the point of having the cage? 

hartford: well, none at all really. and then some pieces of cage furniture which will keep him entertained. 

hartford: here's an ant-wheel, ant-swing, and a very nice one here, a little ladder - he can run up there and ring the bell at the top, that's a little trick he can learn. 

chris: will he live long enough? 

hartford: not really, no, but it's best to have one just in case, and here's a two-way radio he can play with... and of course you'll need the book. 

chris: the book? 

hartford: yes, the book on ants. 

chris: yes... 

hartford: so, sir, that is, if i may say so, one hundred and eighty-four pounds one and a half p., sir. 

chris: will you take a cheque? 

hartford: yes, sir, if you don't mind leaving a blood-sample, and a piece of skin off the back of the scalp just here, sir ... 

chris: oh, well i think i'll put it on account. 

hartford: i should, sir... much less painful. anyway sir, you know what they say about an ant. a friend for life, eh? well, a friend for its life anyway... 

hartford: if the little chap should go to an early grave, sir, give us a ring and we'll stick a few in an envelope, all right? 

chris: thanks very much indeed. 

hartford: not at all, thank 

hartford: you 

hartford: , mr ellis. 

first assistant: sssssshh! 

chris: what did you say? 

hartford: i said thank you, mr ellis... 

first assistant: it's not him. 

hartford: oh! 

chris: why did you say i was mr ellis? 

hartford: who? 

first assistant: no, he didn't say that. 

chris: yes he did. i heard him say 'thank you, mr ellis'. 

first assistant: oh, no, no - he said 'i'm jealous'. 

first assistant: i'm jealous of your ant. goodbye. goodbye. 

chris: i don't care who michael ellis is! 

<scene at home with the ant and other pets>

mother: what have you got now? 

chris: i bought an ant, mother. 

mother: what d'you want one of them for! i'm not going to clean it out. you said you'd clean the tiger out, but do you? no, i suppose you've lost interest in it now. now it'll be ant ant ant for a couple of days, then all of a sudden, 'oh, mum, i've bought a sloth' or some other odd-toed ungulate like a tapir. 

chris: it's really different this time, mum. i'm really going to look after this ant. 

mother: that's what you said about the sperm whale... now your papa's having to use it as a garage. 

chris: well, you didn't feed it properly. 

mother: where are we going to get forty-four tons of plankton from every morning? your papa was dead vexed about that. they thought he was mad in the deli. 

chris: well at least he's got a free garage. 

mother: that's no good to him... his hillman smells all fishy. 

mother: oh blimey, that's the tiger. he'll want his mandies. 

chris: are you giving that tiger drugs? 

mother: ' 

mother: course 

mother: i'm giving it drugs! 

chris: it's illegal. 

mother: you try telling that to the tiger. 

chris: i think it's dangerous. 

mother: listen ... before he started fixing, he used to get through four jehovah's witnesses a day. and he used to eat all of them, except the pamphlets. 

chris: well he's not dim. 

mother: all right! 

chris: well, i'm going to watch one of the televisions... come on marcus. 

mother: michael's been on the phone all day for you. 

chris: michael? 

mother: you know, michael... 

mother: michael 

mother: ellis 

mother: . he's been on the phone all day ... he came round twice. 

chris: what did he look like? 

mother: oh, i didn't see him. the orange-rumped agouti answered the door. only useful animal you ever bought, that. 

chris: where is he now? 

mother: he's upstairs forging prescriptions for the sodding tiger! 

chris: no, no, where is michael ellis now? 

mother: oh, i don't know... he said it wasn't important, anyway... all right, here i come. 

<scene documentary on ants>

<scene ant communication>

announcer: hello and welcome to the university of the air. and first this afternoon, part seventeen in our series of lectures on animal communications. this afternoon we look at recent discoveries in the field of intraspecific signalling codes in the family formicidea. 

chris: that's a stroke of luck, marcus... 

mother: turn that bloody thing off! 

announcer: we interrupt this programme to bring you the latest news of the extraordinary michael ellis saga. apparently michael ellis... 

chris: hey! i was watching that... 

mother: bloody thing. it's upsetting the tiger. 

mother: oh christ! 

announcer: ... nd of the announcement. and now back to 'university of the air', and our series for advanced medical students, 'elements of surgical homeopathic practice'. part 68 - 'ants'. 

chris: ah! we're in luck again, marcus. 

surgeon: hello formicidophiles! before the blood and guts that you're waiting to see, let's have a look at the anatomy of the little ant. 

ant expert's voice: the body of the ant is divided into three sections. 

ant expert's voice: you're not so strong compared with me, four, five, six ... ha! 

chris: i didn't know ants had 

chris: six 

chris: legs, marcus! 

ant expert: well i can assure you they do, mr ellis. 

chris: hey! you've got two legs missing! and that's a false feeler marcus! blimey! 

chris: i'm taking this ant back, mother - he's got two legs missing. 

mother: hey! mrs mcwong's been on the phone! the polar bear's been in her garden again. 

chris: well i'll get it on the way back from the store. 

mother: well mind you do - his droppings are enormous. 

<scene complaining about ant>

none: cut back to the store. inside the lift. chris stands there with his ant in his hand. there are also two ladies in geman national costume. the lift lady, who has a wall-eye, a wooden leg, a tooth-brace, a hearing aid, a hilt-up shoe, a neck-brace, and a hook is reciting. 

lift woman: second floor ... stationery, leather goods, tribal head injuries, cricket bats, film stars, dolphinariums. 

lift woman: third floor ... cosmetics, books, irish massage, tribal head-gear, ants.. 

lift woman: about ants! 

chris: oh, where do i go to complain? 

lift woman: straight on, then left, then right past the thing, then, up the little stairs, then right by where it's gone all soft, then down the wobbly bit, left past the nail, past the brown stain on the wall to your right and it's the door marked exit straight ahead of you on the left. 

chris: thank you. 

lift woman: fourth floor... kiddies' vasectomies... 

chris: i don't want you. 

first assistant: oh, something wrong with your little ant friend? 

chris: no! i'm not going to tell you. 

first assistant: something missing in the leg department? 

manager: can i help you, sir? 

chris: no! no! no! no! 

manager: oh, it's all right, sir, it's for the sack race later on. 

chris: no, no, no, i want to speak to the general manager, i want to complain. 

manager: oh, well you want the toupee hall in that case, sir. 

chris: the what? 

manager: the toupee hall, mr ellis. 

chris: excuse me - could you tell me the way to the toupee hall, please? 

assistant: sorry? 

chris: the toupee hall. 

assistant: the what? 

assistant: oh, the 

assistant: toupee hall 

assistant: gladys, where are toupees now? 

gladys: toupees? 

assistant: this gentleman wants one. 

gladys: a toupee? 

chris: well, no, actually... 

gladys: i think they're in surgical appliances now. 

assistant: that's right, yes, you go left at artificial limbs and hearing aids, right at dentures and it's on your left just by glass eyes. it doesn't say toupees to avoid embarrassing people, but you can smell 'em. 

<scene poetry reading (ants)>

old lady: good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, it's so nice to see such a large turnout this afternoon. and i'd like to start off by welcoming our guest speakers for this afternoon, mr wadsworth... 

wordsworth: wordsworth! 

old lady: sorry, wordsworth... mr john koots, and percy bysshe. 

shelley: shelley! 

old lady: just a little one, medium dry, 

old lady: and alfred lorde. 

tennyson: tennyson. 

old lady: tennis ball. 

tennyson: son, son. 

old lady: sorry - alfred lord, who is evidently lord tennisball's son. and to start off i'm going to ask mr wadsworth to recite his latest offering, a little pram entitled 'i wandered lonely as a crab' and it's all about ants. 

wordsworth: i wandered lonely as a 

wordsworth: cloud 

wordsworth: that floats on high over vales and hills 

wordsworth: when all at once i saw a crowd 

wordsworth: a host of golden worker ants. 

old lady: thank you, thank you, mr bradlaugh. now, mr bysshe. 

shelley: shelley. 

old lady: oh... 

old lady: ... is going to read one of his latest psalms, entitled 'ode to a crab'. 

old lady: thank you mr amontillado. i'd like to ask one or two of you at the back not to soil the carpet, there is a restroom upstairs if you find the poems too exciting 

keats: my heart aches and a drowsy numbness pains 

keats: my senses, as though an anteater i'd seen 

old lady: mr keats, mr keats, please leave immediately. 

keats: it's true. don't you see. it's true. it happens. 

old lady: ladies and gentlemen, i do apologize for that last... well i hesitate to call it a pram ... but i had no idea ... and talking of filth... i have asked you once about the carpet ... now, i do appreciate that last poem was very frightening... but please! now before we move on to tea and pramwiches, i would like to ask arthur lord tenniscourt to give us his latest little plum entitled 'the charge of the ant brigade'. 

tennyson: half an inch, half an inch... 

queen victoria: my loyal subjects, we are here today on a matter of national import. my late husband and we are increasingly disturbed by recent developments in literary style 

queen victoria: that have taken place here in germany ... er england. there seems to be an increasing tendency for ze ent... the ent... the ant... to become the dominant ... was is der deutsches entwicklungsbund... 

attendant: theme. 

queen victoria: theme ... of modern poetry here in germany. we are not ... amusiert? 

queen victoria: entertained. from now on, ants is verboten. instead it's skylarks, daffodils, nightingales, light brigades and ... was ist das schreckliche gepong ... es schmecke wie ein scheisshaus... und so weiter. well, we must away now or we shall be late for the races. god bless you alles. 

voice: psst! electric kettles over here, sir. 

<scene toupee>

toupee manager: don't worry, sir, you're among friends now, sir. 

toupee manager: these are our fitters, sir. we've had a lot of experience in this field and we do pride ourselves we offer the best and most discreet service available. i don't know whether you'll believe this sir, but one of us is actually wearing a toupee at this moment... 

chris: well, you all are, aren't you? 

bradford: have you got one? 

crawley: yes, but i didn't know... 

toupee manager: i didn't realize that you two... i thought it was me, 

crawley: yes, i thought it was me. 

bradford: so did i. 

bradford: that is good. 

chris: actually, i only came in here to ask where the manager's office was. 

toupee manager: just a minute - someone told you we all had toupees? 

chris: no. 

crawley: oh yeah? 

bradford: how did you know? 

chris: well ... it's pretty obvious, isn't it? 

crawley: what do you mean obvious! his is undetectable. 

chris: well, it's a different colour, for a start. 

bradford: is it? 

crawley: course it isn't! 

chris: and it doesn't fit in with the rest of his hair... it sort of sticks up in the middle. 

bradford: it's better than yours. 

crawley: yes. 

chris: i'm not wearing one. 

toupee manager: oh, i see, you haven't got one. 

crawley: why did you come in here then? 

chris: they told me to find the manager's office here. 

bradford: oh no, not again. 

crawley: that's a bit lame, isn't it... 

chris: it's the truth! 

all: manager's office. 

bradford: yeah, look at it. where did you get that, mac fisheries? 

toupee manager: dreadful, isn't it? 

crawley: nylon? 

chris: it's not, it's real look. 

all: oh yeah, anyone can do that. 

crawley: come on, get if off. 

chris: get away. 

toupee manager: look, do you want a proper one? 

chris: no, i don't need one. 

bradford: there's no need to be ashamed. 

crawley: we've all owned up. 

toupee manager: don't you see... this is something you've got to come to terms with. 

chris: i am not wearing a toupee! they just told me to come in here to find the manager's office, to complain about my ant! 

crawley: pathetic, isn't it. 

bradford: complain about an ant? 

toupee manager: this is for your own good. 

<scene complaints office>

complaints manager: all right. take a seat. 

lady: you see! there ought to be a safety catch on it, i mean ... ohhhh! 

lady: i mean, what if this fell into the wrong hands? 

complaints manager: yes, madam. i'll speak to the makers personally, all right? 

lady: would you? it would put my mind at ease. 

lady's voice: sorry... 

complaints manager: next? 

mr zyndersky: he's still molesting her. 

complaints manager: yes, yes, i'll see to you in a moment, sir. 

colonel ewing: i've got a complaint to make. 

complaints manager: do take a seat. i'm sorry it's on fire. 

colonel ewing: oh, not at all. 

colonel ewing: i got used to this out east. 

complaints manager: where were you out east? 

colonel ewing: oh, norway ... sweden ... places like that... oh i'm terribly sorry, my suit seems to keep catching fire. 

complaints manager: extinguisher? 

colonel ewing: oh no, thank you, i think we'd better let it run its course. i was just thinking... norway is not very east, is it? i should have said when i was out north. 

complaints manager: are there many fires in norway? 

colonel ewing: good lord yes. the place is a constant blaze. wooden buildings, d'you know. i lost my wife in norway. 

complaints manager: i am sorry to hear that. 

colonel ewing: why, did you know her? 

complaints manager: no, i meant... 

colonel ewing: oh i see. no, she wasn't a favourite of mine. we were out strolling across a fiord one day when one of the local matadors came out of his tree house and flung a load of old scimitars and guillotines out that he'd got cluttering up his wine cellar and apparently rather a large proportion of them landed on my wife causing her to snuff it without much more ado. 

complaints manager: yes, yes - well look... 

chris: what a rotten ending. 

<scene different endings>

assistant: well it is one of our cheapest, sir. 

chris: what else have you got? 

assistant: well, there's the long slow pull-out, sir, you know, the camera tracks back and back and mixes... 

chris: no, have you got anything more exciting? 

assistant: how about a chase? 

chris: oh, no, no, no. 

assistant: walking into the sunset? 

chris: what's that one? 

assistant: you know ... two lone figures silhouetted against the dying rays of the setting sun. the music swells, you've got a lump in your throat and a tear in your eye... 

chris: oh no. 

assistant: oh, pity, i rather like that one... 

chris: they're all a bit off the point, you see. 

assistant: well there is one that ties up the whole michael ellis thing, but.... 

chris: but what... ? 

assistant: oh, no, nothing, nothing... 

chris: look, who is this michael ellis? 

assistant: how about a happy ending, sir? 

girl: oh chris! thank god you're safe. 

assistant: no, you wouldn't want that, would you. 

chris: why wouldn't i want that? 

assistant: what about summing up from the panel? that's cheap. you know - the big match experts. 

malcolm allison: yes. it was quite a good show. i think that the michael ellis character was a little overdone. 

brian clough: well, i don't agree with that, malcolm, quite frankly the only bit i liked was this bit with me in it now. 

assistant: no? slow fade? 

chris: nnnn... no. 

assistant: well, how about a sudden ending? 

<scene 'up your pavement'>

none: title caption: 'up your pavement' 

none: caption: 'by the rev. and mrs a. g. phipps' 

none: caption: 'from an idea by lord carrington' 

voice over: taking life as it comes, sharing the good things and the bad things, finding laughter and fun wherever they go - it is with these two happy-go-lucky rogues that our story begins. 

voice over: len hanky! chiropodist, voyeur, hen-teaser. the man of whom the chairman of fiat once said... 

chairman: che cosa è lo succiacatori do polli? 

voice over: yes! tonight we examine the career of gino agnelli! the man who started from nothing to build up one of the greatest firms in europe. 

<scene raf banter>

bovril: morning, squadron leader. 

squadron leader: what-ho, squiffy. 

bovril: how was it? 

squadron leader: top-hole. bally jerry, pranged his kite right in the how's your father. hairy blighter, dicky-birdied, feathered back on his sammy, took a waspy, flipped over on his betty harper's and caught his can in the bertie. 

bovril: er, i'm afraid i don't quite follow you, squadron leader. 

squadron leader: it's perfectly ordinary banter, squiffy. bally jerry...pranged his kite right in the how's yer father...hairy blighter, dicky-birdied, feathered back on his sammy, took a waspy, flipped over on his betty harper's and caught his can in the bertie. 

bovril: no, i'm just not understanding banter at all well today. give us it slower. 

squadron leader: banter's not the 

squadron leader: same 

squadron leader: if you say it slower, squiffy. 

bovril: hold on then. 

wingco: yes! 

bovril: bend an ear to the squadron leader's banter for a sec, would you? 

wingco: can do. 

bovril: jolly good. 

wingco: fire away. 

squadron leader: ... 

wingco: ...no, don't understand that banter at all. 

squadron leader: something up with my banter, chaps? 

pilot: bunch of monkeys on the ceiling, sir! grab your egg and fours and let's get the bacon delivered! 

wingco: do you understand that? 

squadron leader: no, didn't get a word of it. 

wingco: sorry old man, we don't understand your banter. 

pilot: you know...bally ten-penny ones dropping in the custard... 

pilot: un...charlie choppers chucking a handful... 

wingco: no, no...sorry. 

bovril: say it a bit slower, old chap. 

pilot: slower 

pilot: banter 

pilot: , sir? 

wingco: ra-ther! 

pilot: um...sausage squad up the blue end? 

squadron leader: no, still don't get it. 

pilot: um...cabbage crates coming over the briny? 

squadron leader: no. 

others: no, no.... 

voice over: but by then it was too late. the first cabbage crates hit london on july the 7th. that was just the beginning. 

<scene trivializing the war>

general: five shillings a dozen? that's ordinary cabbages, is it? and what about the bombs?... good lord, they 

general: are 

general: expensive. 

corporal: sir! 

general: yes, what is it? 

corporal: news from the western front, sir. 

general: yes ... ? 

corporal: big enemy attack at dawn, sir ... 

corporal: well, the enemy were all wearing little silver halos, sir ... and ... they had fairy wands with big stars on the end ... and ... 

general: they what ... ? 

corporal: .. and ... they had spiders in matchboxes, sir. 

general: good god! how did our chaps react? 

corporal: well, they were jolly interested, sir. some of them ... i think it was the 4th armoured brigade, sir, they ... well, they went and had a look at the spiders, sir. 

general: oh my god! all right, thank you, shirley. 

general: gentlemen, it's now quite apparent that the enemy are not only fighting this war on the cheap, but they're also not taking it seriously. 

ageing general: bastards ... 

general: first they drop cabbages instead of decent bombs ... 

corporal: the crates were probably quite expensive, sir. 

general: quiet, critic! and now they're doing very silly things in one of the most vital areas of the war! 

ageing general: what are we going to do, shirley? 

general: well, we've got to act fast before it saps morale. we're going to show these chinese ... 

captain: germans, sir. 

general: these germans ... we're going to show them that no british soldier will descend to their level. anyone found trivialising this war will face the supreme penalty that military law can provide. 

general: that was all right, i think? 

<scene courtmartial>

presiding general: sapper walters, you stand before this court accused of carrying on the war by other than warlike means - to wit, that you did on april 16th, 1942, dress up as a bag of dainties, flick wet towels at the enemy during an important offensive ... 

walters: well, sir ... 

presiding general: shut up! colonel fawcett for the prosecution ... 

fawcett: sir, we all know ... 

presiding general: shut up! 

fawcett: i'm sorry? 

presiding general: carry on. 

fawcett: sir, we all know the facts of this case; that sapper walters, being in possession of expensive military equipment, to wit one lee enfield .303 rifle and 72 rounds of ammunition, valued at a hundred and forty pounds three shillings and sixpence, chose instead to use wet towels to take an enemy command post in the area of basingstoke ... 

presiding general: basingstoke? basingstoke in hampshire? 

fawcett: no, no, no, sir, no. 

presiding general: i see, carry on. 

fawcett: the result of his action was that the enemy ... 

<scene basingstoke in westphalia>

presiding general: basingstoke 

presiding general: where 

presiding general: ? 

fawcett: basingstoke in westphalia, sir. 

presiding general: oh i see. carry on. 

fawcett: the result of sapper walters's action was that the enemy received wet patches upon their trousers and in some cases small red strawberry marks upon their thighs ... 

presiding general: i didn't know there 

presiding general: was 

presiding general: a basingstoke in westphalia. 

fawcett: it's on the map, sir. 

presiding general: what map? 

fawcett: the map of westphalia as used by the army, sir. 

presiding general: well, i've certainly never heard of basingstoke in westphalia. 

fawcett: it's a municipal borough sir, twenty-seven miles north-north east of southhampton. its chief manufactures ... 

presiding general: what ... southhampton in westphalia? 

fawcett: yes sir ... bricks ... clothing. nearby are remains of basing house, burned down by cromwell's cavalry in 1645 ... 

presiding general: who compiled this map? 

fawcett: cole porter, sir. 

presiding general: cole porter ... who wrote `kiss me kate'? 

fawcett: no, alas not, sir ... this was cole porter who wrote `anything goes'. sir, i shall seek to prove that the man before this court ... 

presiding general: that's the same one! 

presiding general: `in olden days a glimpse of stocking ...' 

fawcett: i 

fawcett: beg 

fawcett: your pardon, sir? 

presiding general: `in olden days a glimpse of stocking, was looked on as something shocking, now heaven knows, anything goes ...' 

fawcett: no, this one's different, sir. 

presiding general: how does it go? 

fawcett: what, sir? 

presiding general: how does 

presiding general: your 

presiding general: `anything goes' go? 

walters: can i go home now? 

presiding general: shut up! 

presiding general: come on! 

fawcett: sir, really, this is rather ... 

<scene 'anything goes in' (song)>

presiding general: come on, how does your `anything goes' go? 

presiding general: no, that's not it ... carry on. 

fawcett: with respect sir, i shall seek to prove that the man before you in the dock being in the possession of the following: one pair of army boots, value three pounds seven and six, one pair of serge trousers, value two pounds three and six, one pair of gaiters value sixty-eight pounds ten shillings, one ... 

presiding general: sixty-eight pounds ten shillings for a pair of 

presiding general: gaiters 

presiding general: ? 

fawcett: they were special gaiters, sir. 

presiding general: special 

presiding general: gaiters? 

fawcett: yes, sir, they were made in france. one beret costing fourteen shillings, one pair of ... 

presiding general: what was special about them? 

fawcett: oh ... 

fawcett: they were made of a special fabric, sir. the buckles were made of empire silver instead of brass. the total value of the uniform was there ... 

presiding general: why was the accused wearing special gaiters? 

fawcett: they were a presentation pair sir, from the regiment. the total value of the uniform ... 

presiding general: why did they present him with a special pair of gaiters? 

fawcett: sir, it seems to me totally irrelevant to the case whether the gaiters were presented to him or not, sir. 

presiding general: i think the court will be able to judge that for themselves. i want to know why the regiment presented the accused with a special pair of gaiters. 

fawcett: he ... used to do things for them. the total value ... 

presiding general: what things? 

fawcett: he .. he used to oblige them, sir. the total value ... 

presiding general: oblige 

presiding general: them? 

fawcett: yes, sir. the total value of the uniform ... 

presiding general: how did he oblige them? 

fawcett: what sir? 

presiding general: how did he 

presiding general: oblige 

fawcett: he ... um ... used to make them happy in little ways, sir. the total value of the uniform could therefore not have been less than ... 

presiding general: did he touch them at all? 

fawcett: sir! i submit that this is totally irrelevant. 

presiding general: i want to know how he made them happy. 

fawcett: he used to ram things up their ... 

presiding general: all right! all right! no need to spell it out! what er ... what has the accused to say? 

walters: what, me? 

presiding general: yes. what have you got to say? 

walters: what can 

walters: i 

walters: say? i mean, how can i encapsulate in mere words my scorn for any military solution? the fultility of modern warfare? and the hypocrisy by which contemporary government applies one standard to violence within the community and another to violence perpetrated by one community upon another? 

defense counsel: i'm sorry, but my client has become pretentious. i will say in his defense that he has suffered ... 

fawcett: sir! we haven't finished the prosecution! 

presiding general: shut up! i'm in charge of this court. 

everyone: anything goes in. anything goes out! 

everyone: fish, bananas, old pyjamas, 

everyone: mutton! beef! and trout! 

everyone: anything goes in. anything goes out. 

<scene film trailer>

none: superimposed captions: 'drama!' ' action!' 

voice over: yes! coming to this cinema soon! 

voice over: thrill! to the excitement of a night emission over germany. 

none: superimposed caption: 'thrill!' 

voice over: when the pilot, jennifer 

voice over: with ginger, as the half-man, half-woman, parrot whose unnatural instincts brought forbidden love in the aviary. and roger as pip, the half-parrot, half-man, half-woman, three-quarter badger, ex-bigamist negro preacher, for whom banjo-playing was very difficult, and he never mastered it although he took several courses and went to banjo college ... er ... and everything ... don't miss it! 

voice over: coming to your cinema soon! 

voice over: only five minutes from this restaurant! but now! 

it's man: it's ... 

<scene the public are idiots>

none: then cut to two twin-set-and-pearls ladies, mrs elizabeth iii and mrs mock tudor. they are in a sitting room with vulgar furnishings. by the tv, which they are watching, stands a small arab boy (terry g) . he has electrodes fixed to him and wires stretching from a control box held by mrs elizabeth iii. they are watching the tramps. 

mrs mock tudor: bloody repeats! 

mrs elizabeth iii: yes, repeats or war films. it really makes you want to micturate. 

mrs mock tudor: people on television treat the general public like idiots. 

mrs elizabeth iii: well we 

mrs elizabeth iii: are 

mrs elizabeth iii: idiots. 

mrs mock tudor: oh no we are 

mrs mock tudor: not 

mrs mock tudor: ! 

mrs elizabeth iii: well 

mrs elizabeth iii: i 

mrs elizabeth iii: am. 

mrs mock tudor: how do you know you're an idiot? 

mrs elizabeth iii: oh, i can show you! 

mrs mock tudor: how? 

mrs elizabeth iii: look! 

<scene programme titles conference>

chief executive: you see the public 

chief executive: are 

chief executive: yes ... you might just as well show them the last five miles of the m2 ... they'd watch it, eh? 

<scene the last five miles of the m2>

mrs mock tudor: at last they done been put on something interesting. 

mrs elizabeth iii: oh, most interesting. 

first planner: ... and our figures show that the motorways are extremely popular. i mean, last time we showed a repeat of the leicester bypass our ratings gave us 97,300,912, and itv nought. so i do feel we ought to give b roads their own series. 

chief executive: i'm sorry ... we just can't give you a bigger budget. 

second planner: budgie? 

first planner: why not? 

chief executive: we're not the only slice of the cake, you know. 

third planner: wouldn't mind a slice of cake. nice chocolate cake ... delicious ... 

second planner: i had a budgie once you know, amusing little chap, used to stick his head in a bell ... what was his name, now ... joey? ... xerxes? ... 

first planner: we could repeat them ... 

third planner: re-heat them? 

first planner: no, repeat them ... 

third planner: you don't re-heat cakes. not chocolate cakes. 

chief executive: what, repeat the cakes? 

second planner: mr heath, that was the name of the budgie. 

chief executive: oh no it isn't, i was looking at the little hand that goes round very fast ... 

all: damn. blast. 

first planner: i've got it. we can retitle the repeats. 

second planner: what ... give them different names? 

chief executive: wouldn't that mean retitling them? 

third planner: brilliant! 

chief executive: right - all we need is new titles. and they must be damned new! 

second planner: how about `dad's navy'? 

chief executive: mm, good, good. 

first planner: `up your mother next door.' 

chief executive: even better ... 

third planner: 'doctor at bee'! 

all: what? 

first planner: someone's knocking at the door. 

chief executive: quite like it - bit long, though, i think. 

third planner: far too long. 

second planner: `i married lucy.' 

chief executive: hasn't that been done? 

second planner: oh, yes, a long time ago, though, they'd never remember it. 

third planner: `doctor at three'! 

chief executive: what? 

first planner: i think someone's knocking at the door. 

chief executive: that's even longer! 

second planner: `i married a tree.' 

chief executive: `and mother makes tree.' 

third planner: `doctor at cake'! 

first planner: look! i'm not absolutely certain, but, well i do rather get the impression that there is someone actually knocking on the door at this very moment. 

chief executive: that's ridiculous. half the programme gone. stop lengthening it! 

third planner: `i married a cake'? 

second planner: `i married three rabbit jelly moulds'! 

third planner: prefer a cake ... specially chocky cake ... 

security man: open the sodding door! 

chief executive: no, no. you can't say `sodding' on the television. 

chief executive: you're supposed to knock! 

security man: sorry, sir, but there's trouble at studio five! 

second planner: you're in security, aren't you? 

security man: yes, sir. 

security man: sir! it's the world war series in studio five - they're not taking it seriously any more. 

first planner: you're not allowed to suggest programme titles! 

security man: look! 

security man: ow! mind me war wound! 

all: that's it! very good title! 

<scene woody and tinny words>

none: exterior, a large, tasteful, georgian rich person's house with extensive gardens beautifully tended, croquet hoops on the lawn - all in superb taste, nothing vulgar. the sun shines tastefully. the atmosphere is calm. birds sing. sound of lawnmovers and cricket in the distance. laughter from the tennis court. sound of gardener sharpening spades in the potting shed. out of vision, a red indian struggles to free himself from the rope bonds that bind him. we hear 'where does a dream begin' being played on a cracked record. 

none: caption: 

father: i say... 

daughter: yes, daddy? 

father: croquet hoops look damn pretty this afternoon. 

daughter: frightfully damn pretty. 

mother: they're coming along awfully well this year. 

father: yes, better than your aunt lavinia's croquet hoops. 

daughter: ugh! - dreadful tin things. 

mother: i did tell her to stick to wood. 

father: yes, you can't beat wood...gorn! 

mother: what's gorn dear? 

father: nothing, nothing, i just like the word, it gives me confidence. gorn...gorn.it's got a sort of woody quality about it. gorn. gorn. much better than 'newspaper' or 'litterbin'. 

daughter: frightful words! 

mother: perfectly dreadful! 

father: ugh! newspaper!...litterbin...dreadful tinny sort of words. tin, tin, tin. 

mother: oh, dear, don't say 'tin' to rebecca, you know how it upsets her. 

father: sorry, old horse. 

mother: sausage! 

father: sausage...there's a good woody sort of word, 'sausage'...gorn. 

daughter: antelope! 

father: where? on the lawn? 

daughter: no, no, daddy...just the word. 

father: don't want an antelope nibbling the hoops. 

daughter: no, antelope...sort of nice and woody type of thing. 

mother: don't think so, becky old chap. 

father: no, no 'antelope', 'antelope' - tinny sort of word. 

father: oh, sorry old man. 

mother: really, mansfield. 

father: well, she's got to come to terms with these things... seemly... prodding... vacuum... leap... 

daughter: hate 'leap'. 

mother: perfectly dreadful. 

daughter: sort of pvc-y sort of word, don't you know. 

mother: lower-middle. 

father: bound! 

mother: now you're talking! 

father: bound...vole...recidivist. 

mother: bit tinny. 

father: oh dear, i suppose she'll be gorn for a few days now. 

mother: caribou! 

father: splendid word. 

mother: no, dear...nibbling the hoops. 

father: caribou gorn. 

father: intercourse. 

mother: later, dear. 

father: no, no, the word, 'intercourse' - good and woody...inter...course... pert...pert thighs...botty, botty botty... 

father: oh, thank you, dear...you know, it's a funny thing, dear...all the naughty words sound woody. 

mother: really, dear?...how about tit? 

father: oh dear, i hadn't thought about that. tit. tit. oh, that's very tinny, isn't it? 

father: oh dear...ocelot...wasp....yowling...oh dear, i'm bored...i'd better go and have a bath, i suppose. 

mother: oh really, must you, dear? you've had nine today. 

father: all right, i'll sack one of the servants...simpkins!...nasty tinny sort of name. simpkins! 

pilot: i say, mater, cabbage crates coming over the briny. 

mother: sorry dear, don't understand. 

pilot: er...cow-catchers creeping up on the conning towers... 

mother: no...sorry...old sport. 

pilot: caribou nibbling at the croquet hoops. 

mother: yes, mansfield shot one in the antlers. 

pilot: oh, jolly good show. is 'becca about? 

mother: no, she's gorn off. 

pilot: what a super woody sort of phrase. `gorn orff'. 

mother: yes, she's gorn orff because mansfield said tin to her. 

pilot: oh, what rotten luck ... oh well ... whole afternoon to kill ... better have a bath i suppose. 

mother: oh, gervaise do sing me a song ... 

pilot: oh, ok. 

mother: something woody. 

pilot: for ... she's going to marry yum yum ... oh crikey. the old song finished her orff. 

father: what's urp? 

pilot: i'm afraid mrs vermin jones appears to have passed orn. 

father: dead, is she? 

pilot: 'fraid so. 

father: what a blow for her. 

<scene show-jumping (musical)>

mrs mock tudor: what i want to know mrs elizabeth iii, is why they give us crap like that, when there's bits of the leicester by-pass what have never been shown. biskwit? 

mrs elizabeth iii: oh, thank yew ... 

voice over: appearing on the m2 were 4,281 vauxhall vivas, 2,117 vauxhall vivas de luxe, 153 vauxhall vivas with ... 

mrs mock tudor: bloody repeats. 

mrs elizabeth iii: yes, repeats or war films ... makes you want to ... 

dorian: hello and welcome to show-jumping from white city ... 

mrs mock tudor: oh, moto-cross! 

dorian: ... and it's anneli drummond-hay on mr softee just about to go into jump-off against the clock. the short pause is for the stewards who are repairing the sound of music. 

dorian: and there's the bell. she's got 1.07 seconds to beat, but she needs a clear round to win. as she comes towards the sound of music and ... 

mrs elizabeth iii: quite exciting. 

dorian: ... beautifully taken, and now she needs to pick up speed for oklahoma, but not too much. this is where alan jones knocked down poor judd, but ... and ... she's taken it superbly! 

mrs mock tudor: you notice how we never actually see the horses jump. 

mrs mock tudor: wait for it ... 

dorian: and! she's taken it ... 

dorian: she's over the minstrels. she just flicked leslie crowther with her tail, but the time's good, and now she turns before coming into the final jump ... this is a tough one ... it's ben-hur - forty-six chariots ... 6,000 spectators ... 400 slaves, lion-handlers, the emperor nero and the entire coliseum. 198 feet high. 400 years across! 

mrs mock tudor: i bet we don't see this one. 

<scene newsflash (germans)>

peter woods: we interrupt show jumping to bring you a news flash. the second world war has now entered a sentimental stage. the morning on the ardennes front, the germans started spooning at dawn, but the british fifth army responded by gazing deep in their eyes, and the germans are reported to have gone 'all coy'. 

<scene 'when does a dream begin?' (song)>

airman: when does a dream begin? 

airman: does it start with a goodnight kiss? 

airman: is it conceived or simply achieved 

airman: is it born in a moment of bliss? 

airman: or is it begun when two hearts are one 

airman: when does a dream exist? 

airman: the vision of you appears somehow 

airman: impossible to resist 

airman: but i'm not imagining seeing you 

airman: for who could have dreamed of this? 

airman: when reality is dismissed? 

airman: or does it commence when we lose all pretence 

<scene >

<scene bogus psychiatrists>

hamlet: it's just that everywhere i go it's the same old thing. all anyone wants me to say is 'to be or not to be ...' 

psychiatrist: '... that is the question. whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous ...' 

hamlet: yes, it's either that, or 'oh that this too solid flesh would melt ...' 

psychiatrist: '... would melt, thaw and resolve itself into a dew. or that the everlasting had not fixed his canon 'gainst self slaughter ...' 

hamlet: yes. all that sort of thing. and i'm just getting really fed up. 

psychiatrist: now do the bit about 'alas poor yorick ...' 

hamlet: no. i'm sick of it! i want to do something else. i want to 

hamlet: make 

hamlet: something of my life. 

psychiatrist: no. i don't know that bit. 

hamlet: i want to get away from all that. be different. 

psychiatrist: well um ... what do you want to be? 

hamlet: a private dick! 

psychiatrist: a private dick? 

hamlet: yes, a private dick! 

psychiatrist: why do you want to be a private dick? 

hamlet: ooh ... why does anyone want to be a private dick? fame, money, glamour, excitement, sex! 

psychiatrist: ah! it's the sex, is it? 

hamlet: well, that's one of the things, yes. 

psychiatrist: yes, what's the sex problem? 

hamlet: well, there's no problem. 

psychiatrist: now, come on, come on. you've got the girl on the bed and she's all ready for it. 

hamlet: no, no, it's nothing to do with that. 

psychiatrist: now come on, come on, there she is, she's all ready for it. she's a real stunner, she's got great big tits, she's really well stacked and you've got her legs up against the mantelpiece. 

dr natal: all right, mr butler, i'll take over. 

dr natal: morning, mr hamlet. my name's natal. sorry to keep you waiting. now what seems to be the problem? 

hamlet: well, i was telling the other psychiatrist ... 

dr natal: he's ... he's not a psychiatrist. 

hamlet: oh. he said he was a psychiatrist. 

dr natal: well ... yes ... um, he's a kind of psychiatrist he's ... he's not a proper psychiatrist. he's not er ... fully qualified ... in, um, quite the sort of way we should want. anyway the problem i believe is basically sexual is it? 

psychiatrist: i asked him that! 

dr natal: get out! 

dr natal: now then, you've got the girl on the bed. you've been having a bit of a feel up during the evening. you've got your tongue down her throat. she's got both her legs up on the mantelpiece ... 

third psychiatrist: dr natal ... out please! 

dr natal: i'm talking to a patient! oh ... 

third psychiatrist: out please! i'm terribly sorry, sir. we have a lot of problems here with bogus psychiatrists. one of the risks in psychiatry i'm afraid. unfortunately they do tend to frighten the patient and they can cause real and permanent damage to the treatment. but i assure you that i am a completely bona fide psychiatrist. here's my diploma in psychiatry from the university of oxford. this here shows that i'm a member of the british psychiatric association, a very important body indeed. here's a letter from another psychiatrist in which he mentions that i'm a psychiatrist. this is my psychiatric club tie, and as you can see the cufflinks match. i've got a copy of 'psychiatry today' in my bag, which i think is pretty convincing. and a letter here from my mother in which she asks how the psychiatry is going, and i think you'll realize that the one person you can't fool is your mother. so if you'd like to ask me any questions about psychiatry, i bet i can answer them. 

hamlet: no, no, it's all right, really. 

third psychiatrist: ok, you've got this girl on your bed, you've had a few drinks, you've got her stretched out and her feet on the mantelpiece ... 

third psychiatrist: yes, what is it? 

intercom voice: there's a proper psychiatrist to see you, dr rufus berg. 

third psychiatrist: oh, oh my god! ok, thank you. 

fourth psychiatrist: right you've got the girl down on the bed, you've got her legs up on the mantelpiece. 

dr natal: well, well done, mr hamlet. you've done extremely well in our disorientation tests. 

hamlet: oh? oh! 

dr natal: you see, i'm sorry it might have confused you a little, but we do this to try to establish a very good doctor/patient relationship, you see ... we do it to sort of, as it were, to break down the barriers. all right? 

hamlet: yes fine. 

dr natal: good! well, you've got her legs up on the mantelpiece ... 

dr bruce: on behalf of the psychiatric association, i should like to say that we are taking firm action to clamp down on the activities of bogus psychiatrists. in fact in many areas of modern psychiatry computers are now being increasingly used for the first basic diagnosis and this has gone a long way in eliminating the danger of unqualified impostors. 

nurse: out! 

<scene 'nationwide'>

charlton: good evening and welcome to 'nationwide'. the programme where we do rather wet things nationally and also give you the chance to see some rather wet items in the regions. well, everyone is talking about the third world war which broke out this morning. but here on 'nationwide' we're going to get away from that a bit and look instead at the latest theory that sitting down regularly in a comfortable chair can rest your legs. it sounds very nice doesn't it, but can it be done? is it possible or practical for many of us in our jobs and with the sort of busy lives we lead to sit down in a comfortable chair just when we want? we sent our reporter john dull to find out. 

reporter: well, here i am on london's busy westminster bridge, seeing just how much time sitting down can take. well, i arrived here by train at about 8:50, it's now 9:05, so i've been here approximately twelve minutes and if it's any encouragement, i must say that my legs do feel rested. 

policeman: is this your chair? 

reporter: er ... well, no, it's a prop. 

policeman: it's been stolen! 

reporter: what? 

policeman: this belongs to a mrs edgeworth of pinner - she's standing over there. 

reporter: ah well, it's nothing to do with me. it's just a prop which the bbc ... aaargh! 

policeman: it's got her name on the bottom. 

reporter: well er ... perhaps you'd better give it back to her. 

policeman: you don't believe i'm a policeman, do you? 

reporter: yes i do! 

<scene police helmets>

policeman: what am i wearing on my head? 

reporter: a helmet 

policeman: a policeman's helmet! 

reporter: yes. 

policeman: you see that? 

policeman: that little number there? 

policeman: that is a metropolitan area identification code. no helmet is authentic without that number. 

reporter: i see. 

policeman: kids helmets, helmets you get in toy shops, helmets you buy at christmas. none of them is authentic ... hang on. 

reporter: oh could i ... 

policeman: hang on! 

policeman: mind you i didn't join the police force just to wear the helmets you know. that just happens to be one of the little perks. there are plenty of jobs where i could have worn a helmet, but not such a nice helmet. 

policeman: this helmet, i think, beats even some of the more elaborate helmets worn by the tsar's private army, the so-called axi red warriors. you know about them? 

reporter: well, no i don't. 

policeman: ah! their helmets used to look like ... you got any paper? 

reporter: well only these scripts. 

policeman: i'll have that! 

man: i say! 

policeman: now then. their helmet was not unlike the bobby's helmet in basic shape. it had an emblem here, and three gold - and in those days it really was gold, that's part of the reason the tsar was so unpopular - three gold bands surmounted by a golden eagle on the apex here. pretty nice helmet, eh? 

policeman: i think the domed helmet wins every time over the flattened job, you know, even when they're three cornered ... 

policeman: ... you want something to eat? 

reporter: well no, er really ... 

policeman: hang on. you can't park here you know. 

policeman: no parked! what's that then? 

women: that's our lunch. 

policeman: right. i'm taking that in for forensic examination. 

women: why? 

policeman: because it might have been used as a murder weapon, that's why! 

policeman: beer? 

reporter: no, no, please ... honestly ... please ... 

policeman: now, the chaldeans, who used to inhabit the area in between the tigris and euphrates rivers, their helmets were of the modular restrained kind of type ... 

<scene father-in-law>

carol: oh robert, tell me i'm beautiful. 

robert: oh you are, you are! 

carol: oh robert, do you mean that? 

robert: of course i do. 

carol: you're not just saying that because i asked you? 

robert: of course not. 

carol: oh robert ... robert, are you sure it doesn't put you off? 

robert: what? 

carol: my father wanting to come and live with us. 

robert: no, of course i don't mind your father coming to live with us. 

carol: he wouldn't just be living with us. 

robert: what do you mean? 

carol: well, he finds it very difficult to get to sleep on his own, so i said he could sleep with us. 

robert: he wants to put his bed in our room? 

carol: no, no, of course not. 

robert: oh good ... 

carol: our bed is plenty big enough for three ... 

carol: he'd just get into bed and go to sleep. 

robert: no. i'm not having that. 

carol: oh robert, i thought you loved me? 

robert: well i do, but ... 

carol: well, he wouldn't look. 

robert: he's bound to peek. 

carol: no, no, he wouldn't honestly. 

robert: no! no! no!! 

father: you young couple just carry on. take no notice of me ... 

father: i don't want to feel as though i'm getting in the way. 

carol: oh no dad, you're not. 

robert: no, no. 

father: good. 

carol: well, i think i'll get to sleep. 

father: are you sure? 

carol: oh yes, i'm a bit tired after the wedding. 

father: bob, what about you? 

robert: oh yes, all right, yes. 

father: oh well, i seem to be o/c lights. 

carol: good night, darling. 

robert: good night. 

father: good night! 

carol: father. father, what are you doing? 

father: i'm making a boat. 

carol: what? 

father: it's the cutty sark. it's a model i've been making in the dark for some years now. 

carol: well, wouldn't it be better with the light on? 

father: no, no, i'm making it in the dark, that's the point. 

father: oh dear, not as accurate as i thought. 

robert: it's not the cutty sark! 

father: well it hasn't got its sails yet. oh well i'll ... i'll have a look at it in the dark room in the morning. good night. 

man: shut up! will you shut up in there! 

man: shut up! 

man: that's better. 

<scene hamlet and ophelia>

hamlet: i am myself indifferent honest, but then i could accuse me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me. 

hamlet: o fair ophelia, nymph, in thy orisons, be all my sins remembered ... 

ophelia: so anyway, you've got the girl on the bed and her legs are on the mantelpiece ... 

nurse: out! 

<scene boxing match aftermath>

none: animation: 

mr gabriello: that was a great fight, champ, a great fight, you hear! oh boy, what a fight, champ, what a great fight! you nearly had him, champ, you nearly had him ... where's his head? 

first assistant: i got it in here, mr gabriello. 

mr gabriello: you were great, champ, d'you hear, you were great! 

mr gabriello: yeah, i think it was a mistake him wearing spectacles. 

mr gabriello: oh well, get that sewn onto his body in time for the press pictures. 

first assistant: ok, mr gabriello. 

mr gabriello: wasn't he great my boy? 

second assistant: he was great, mr gabriello. 

mr gabriello: the way he kept fighting after his head came off! 

second assistant: he was better when the head came off, mr gabriello. he was really dodging the guy. 

mr gabriello: yeah, i reckon that if he could've lasted till the end of that first minute, he would've had the killer worried. 

second assistant: sure, mr gabriello. 

mr gabriello: oh he was great. did you see his left arm? 

second assistant: no! 

mr gabriello: ok, we'll look around the hall after everybody's gone. 

second assistant: do you realize mr gabriello, some of those guys out there paid over $2,000 for a ringside seat. 

mr gabriello: and where did the head land? right at the back, that's justice... 

mr gabriello: what d'you want? 

black man: this your boy's head? 

mr gabriello: no, no, we've got his head. he ain't hurt that bad. 

second assistant: hey, that's gerry marinello. he fought the killer last week. 

mr gabriello: ok, give it to me. i'm seeing his trainer tomorrow. i'll give it to him. 

second assistant: hey, mr gabriello. the press is still outside. are you ready for them? 

mr gabriello: how's the champ? 

mr gabriello: ok, well keep the dressing gown kinda loose, ok. 

mr gabriello: ok boys, come on in! 

first reporter: hey mr gabriello, mr gabriello. did you expect your boy to last the full twenty-eight seconds? 

mr gabriello: this boy has never let me down. he's the pluckiest goddamn fighter i've ever trained. 

second reporter: were you worried when his head started to come loose? 

mr gabriello: no, no, we were expecting that. i told them to expect it to and it did. he ain't stupid. 

first reporter: hey, can we have a word with the champ? 

mr gabriello: yeah ok. but keep the questions simple. 

first reporter: hey champ! how're you feeling? 

mr gabriello: i said keep the questions simple! 

second reporter: mr gabriello. people are saying that the kid ought to be buried. his head's come off in the last six fights. 

mr gabriello: there's no question of burying the kid. he's just reaching the top. 

second reporter: well, shouldn't he just stay in hospital? 

mr gabriello: no, he ain't going to no hospital. he's got the return fight next week. 

<scene boxing commentary>

radio voice: and there's frank sinatra leaving the ring. behind him is george raft, another great boxing fan, martin bormann, acknowledging the applause, and with him of course is gus himmler, who did an awful lot for the sport in his country in the early 1940s. and here comes the champ now and he seems in good shape to meet the killer once again. before an audience, some of them will have paid $920,000 million for the privilege of seeing this boy get beaten up. and there's the bell. 

radio voice: and a left and a right and a right jab that's taken the champ's shoulder off. and here's the killer again with a right and another left and a bash with a hammer and a terrific smack with a heavy thud right into the skull and there's a gaping hole right through the champ's body now. and now the killer's working on the cut eye with a series of beautifully placed punches and the head's coming loose. 

second radio voice: well here in london it's 12:30 and time for 'the robinsons'. 

second radio voice: da di da di da di da ... and so on. 

<scene piston engine (a bargain)>

mrs non-gorilla: bloody rubbish. 

doctor: i wanted to listen to that! 

mrs non-gorilla: morning mrs gorilla. 

mrs gorilla: morning mrs non-gorilla. 

mrs non-gorilla: have you been shopping? 

mrs gorilla: no ... been shopping. 

mrs non-gorilla: did you buy anything? 

mrs gorilla: a piston engine! 

mrs non-gorilla: what d'you buy that for? 

mrs gorilla: oooh! it was a bargain. 

mrs non-gorilla: oooohhh! 

mrs non-smoker: come on little birdies ... come on little birdies ... tweet tweet ... come and see what mummy's got for you ... 

mrs non-smoker: come on little birdies ... tweety tweety ... oooh look at this ... tweet tweet ... ooohhh nice one ... come on little birdies ... 

mrs non-smoker: oohh hello, mrs smoker. 

mrs smoker: hello mrs non-smoker. 

mrs non-smoker: what, you been shopping then? 

mrs smoker: nope ... i've been shopping! 

mrs non-smoker: what d'you buy? 

mrs smoker: a piston engine! 

mrs non-smoker: what d'you buy that for? 

mrs smoker: it was a bargain! 

mrs non-smoker: how much d'you want for it? 

mrs smoker: three quid! 

mrs non-smoker: done. 

mrs smoker: right. thank you. 

mrs non-smoker: how d'you cook it? 

mrs smoker: you don't cook it. 

mrs non-smoker: you can't eat that raw! 

mrs smoker: ooooh ... never thought of that. oh, day and night, but this is wondrous strange ... 

mrs non-smoker: ... and therefore is a stranger welcome it. there are more things in heaven and earth horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. but come, the time is out of joint. oh cursed spite, that ever i was born to set it right. let's go together. 

<scene a room in polonius's house>

presenter: hello, and welcome to 'a room in polonius's house'. well tonight is european cup night. one result is already in from munich. the european cup, first round, second leg, bayern münchen 4397, wrexham 1. so wrexham going through there on aggregate. well, now it's time for racing, so let's go straight over to epsom and brian mcnutty. 

<scene dentists>

none: superimposed caption: 'live from epsom' 

dentist: well over here at epsom, there are chances a-plenty for those who want to make a good start in... 

patient: dentistry. 

dentist: dentistry. it's a well-off suburb, so most people have their own teeth and surgeries are opening at a rate of four or five a week. 

housewife: well, it's only forty-four minutes from the west end on the train and it's not too built up, so you can have a nice garden. and the people of epsom are a very nice class of person. 

<scene live from epsom>

property dealer: well here in high street epsom, there are ample opportunities for all kinds of redevelopment. as you can see, 

property dealer: behind me now there are a high level of low density consumer units, still not fully maximizing site value. this could be radically improved by a carefully planned programme of demolition. and of course most of the occupants ere...er...elderly folks, so they wouldn't put up much of a fight. 

brian: good afternoon. well in fact there's still a few minutes to go before the main race on the card this afternoon - the queen victoria handicap. so let's have a quick word with the winner of the last race, one of the season's top jockeys - ronnie mau-mau. 

brian: good afternoon, ronnie. 

first jockey: good afternoon, brian. 

brian: a very fine ride there, ronnie. 

first jockey: well, a fine horse, brian. you know you can't go wrong. 

brian: do you fancy your chances for the derby? 

first jockey: oh very definitely, very definitely, indeed, certainly brian. 

brian: well, let's just see if a colleague of yours agrees with that. let's just have a quick word with desmond willet. afternoon des. 

second jockey: no chance, no chance at all. 

first jockey: no, no i think you're wrong there, des, with the right kind of going, he's going to be in there at the finish, des. 

second jockey: no chance, there's no chance. 

brian: well in fact i can see last season's top jockey, johnny knowles. 

brian: good afternoon, johnny. 

brian: er, could we have a box for johnny please. 

brian: thank you. 

third jockey: hello brian. 

brian: thats better. well there you are. three well-known faces from the racing world. thanks very much for coming along this afternoon, lads. 

all: not at all. 

brian: and the best wishes for the derby. 

all: ah, thank you, brian, thanks very much. 

brian: well in fact i hear they're ready for us now at the start of the main race this afternoon. so let's go right away and join peter at the start. 

<scene queen victoria handicap>

voice over: well they're under starter's orders for this very valuable queen victoria handicap. and they're off, 

voice over: and at the first fence it's queen victoria just ahead of queen victoria and queen victoria falling away in third place. and queen victoria in the lead as they ... 

presenter: well a very exciting race there at epsom. and now over to the european cup at barcelona where the latest news is that miguel otana, the burly real madrid striker, was sent off for breaking wind in the forty-third minute. he'd already been cautioned for pursing his lips earlier on in the game and now he's off! so let's see a playback of that ... brian. 

brian: yes ... er ... well as you can see ... there's otana now 

brian: and er ... he makes no attempt to play the ball. he quite deliberately lets off! and to my mind he was within the box and the referee had no option whatsoever but to send him off. 

presenter: jimmy? 

presenter: what do you make of that? 

jimmy hill: well the referees really are clamping down these days. only last week the belgian captain was sent off for having a sony radio cassette player. and gonerelli, the huge italian defender, was sent off in turin for having his sitting and dining room knocked through to form an open living area. 

presenter: hamlet? 

hamlet: good evening. 

presenter: well you've got the girl on the bed and her legs up on the mantelpiece ... 

nurse: out, out, come on, come on, out ... 

man: and then... 

<scene >

<scene post box ceremony>

none: a street in ruislip, morning. a scrap cart is going down the street. 

scrap man: let's bring 'em out! any old iron! any old iron! 

scrap man: thank you. 

gpo official: we are here today to witness the opening of a new 

gpo official: box 

gpo official: boxes 

gpo official: wir kommen hier heute morgen für die einfang auf dem neue kabinett für die poste. 

voice over: a perfectly ordinary morning in a perfectly ordinary english suburb. life goes on as it has done for years. 

<scene mr neutron>

voice over: but soon this quiet pattern of life was to change irrevocably. the commonplace routine of a typical monday morning would never be the same again, for into this quiet little community came ... mr neutron! 

voice over: mr neutron! the most dangerous and terrifying man in the world! the man with the strength of an army! the wisdom of all the scholars in history! the man who had the power to destroy the world. 

voice over: mr neutron. no one knows what strange and distant planet he came from, or where he was going to!... wherever he went, terror and destruction were sure to follow. 

voice over: mr neutron! the man whose incredible power has made him the most feared man of all time... waits for his moment to destroy this little world utterly! 

mrs entrail: then there's stanley ... he's our eldest ... he's a biochemist in sutton. he's married to shirley... 

mr neutron: shirley who used to be the hairdresser? 

mrs entrail: yes, that's right, i think she's a lovely person. 

mrs entrail: my husband doesn't ... he thinks she's a bit flash. 

mr entrail: i hate 'er! i hate 'er guts. 

mrs entrail: and they, of course, they come down most weekends, so you'll be able to meet them then. 

mr neutron: l'd ... love ... to. hairdressing is very interesting. 

mrs entrail: and very important, too. if you don't care for your scalp, you get rabies. then there's kenneth, he's our youngest. mind you, he's a bit of a problem... at least my husband thinks he is, anyway. 

mr entrail: nasty little piece of work, he is, i hate him! 

mrs entrail: mind you, the one we hear so much about nowadays is karen. she married a canadian - he's a dentist - they live in alberta - two lovely children, gary who's three, leslie who's six. they look like the spitting image of karen. d'you want to see a photo ... ? 

mr neutron: oh, yes please. 

mrs entrail: all right. 

mr entrail: they're a couple of little bastards. i hate 'em. they've got eyes like little pigs, just like their mother. she's a disaster ... a really horrible-looking person, she is. i thought that one would stay on the shelf, but along comes this stupid dentist git. he's a real creepy little bastard, he is. i hate 'im. 

mr neutron: this is a nice area. 

mr entrail: it's like a bloody graveyard. i hate it. 

mr neutron: it's handy for the shops and convenient for the west end. 

mr entrail: if you like going to the west end. i think it's a stinking dump. 

voice over: meanwhile in washington, at the headquarters of 'fear' - the federal egg answering room - in reality a front name for 'feeble' - the free world extra-earthly bodies location and extermination centre... all was not well. 

captain carpenter: good god! 

captain carpenter: get me the supreme commander land, sea and air forces, immediately! 

commander: hello? 

carpenter: this is captain carpenter sir, from fear. 

commander: you mean feeble? 

carpenter: yes, sir ... 

commander: what is it? 

carpenter: mr neutron is missing, sir! 

commander: mr neutron! oh my god! ok - surround the entire city! send in four waves of armed paratroopers with full ground-to-air missile support! alert all air bases! destroy all roads! we'll bomb the town flat if we have to! 

carpenter: sir! sir! he's not in washington, sir. 

commander: ok! hold everything! hold everything! hold it! lay off! lay off... where is he? 

carpenter: we don't know, sir ... all we know is he checked out of his hotel and took a bus to the airport. 

commander: all right! i want a full-scale red alert throughout the world! surround everyone with everything we've got! mobilize every fighting unit and every weapon we can lay our hands on! i want... i want three full-scale global nuclear alerts with every army, navy and air force unit on eternal standby! 

carpenter: right, sir! 

commander: and introduce conscription! 

carpenter: yes, sir! 

commander: right! 

voice over: so the world was in the grip of fear! a huge and terrifying crisis generated by one man! 

voice over: ... easily the most dangerous man the world has ever seen, honestly. though still biding his time, he could strike at any moment. could he be stopped in time? 

mrs smailes: you've got a bit of work to do there, then. 

mr neutron: yes, it is a problem. 

mrs smailes: mrs ottershaw never used to bother ... then of course she was very old... she was 206! well, must be going... if you need any help i'll send frank round. he could do with a bit of'exercise, ha! ha! ha! ha! ... fat old bastard... 

commander: yes? 

carpenter: captain carpenter here, sir. we've been on red alert now for three days, sir, and still no sign of mr neutron. 

commander: have we bombed anywhere? have we shown 'em we got 

commander: teeth 

commander: ? 

carpenter: oh yes, sir. we've bombed a lot of places flat, sir. 

commander: good. good. we don't want anyone to think we're chicken. 

carpenter: oh no! they don't think that, sir. everyone's really scared of us, sir. 

commander: of us? 

carpenter: yes, sir. 

commander: of our power? 

carpenter: oh yes, sir! they're really scared when they see those big planes come over. 

commander: wow! i bet they are. i bet they are. i bet they're really scared. 

carpenter: oh they are, sir. 

commander: do we have any figures on how scared they are? 

carpenter: no ... no figures, sir. but they sure were scared. 

commander: ah! but it's not working? 

carpenter: no, sir. 

commander: ok. we'll try another tactic. we'll try and out-smart this neutron guy. yes, there's one man who could nail him. 

carpenter: one guy? that won't frighten anyone, sir. 

commander: he's the most brilliant man i ever met. we were in the cia together. he's retired now. he breeds rabbits up in the yukon... ' 

carpenter: what's his name, sir? 

commander: his name is teddy salad. 

carpenter: salad as in... ? 

commander: lettuces, cucumber, radishes. yeah, yeah, yeah. 

carpenter: where do i find him, sir? 

commander: the yukon. oh, and carpenter ... 

carpenter: yes, sir? 

commander: make sure you get a decent disguise. 

<scene teddy salad (cia agent)>

carpenter: oh, hello. my name's carpenter. i'm from the us government. 

lumberjack: are you from the army? 

carpenter: er... no... i'm... er... i'm... i'm from the ballet. the us government ballet. 

lumberjack: the ballet! the ballet's coming here? 

carpenter: well maybe... 

lumberjack: oh, that's great! we love the ballet. last year some of us from yellow river got a party to go see the ballet in montreal. 

carpenter: look, i was wondering... 

lumberjack: oh, we had a 

lumberjack: marvellous 

lumberjack: time. it was margot fonteyn dancing 'les sylphides'... oh, it was so beautiful... 

carpenter: do you know... 

lumberjack: do you know how old she is? 

carpenter: who? 

lumberjack: margot fonteyn. 

carpenter: no. 

lumberjack: she's 206! 

carpenter: look, i hear there's a us 

carpenter: ballet 

carpenter: organizer round these parts by the name of teddy salad. 

lumberjack: you mean the special agent? 

carpenter: well... 

lumberjack: he's an ex-cia man. he's not a ballet dancer. 

carpenter: well, i just want to see him on some ballet business... 

lumberjack: well, you could try the store... 

carpenter: oh, thank you. 

lumberjack: hey! can you get us lionel blair's autograph? 

voice over: while precious time was being lost in canada, the seconds were ticking away for the free world... 

voice over: already neutron - who, you will remember, is infinitely the most dangerous man in the world, he 

voice over: really 

voice over: is - was gathering allies together. 

mr neutron: try having an omelette for your evening meal... perhaps with yogurt and grapefruit. 

mr smailes: oh, i've tried that ... i once got down to fifty-six stone. but i couldn't stay like that. i used to take potatoes wherever i went. i used to go to the cinema with three hundredweight of king edwards, i'd eat 'em all before i got out of the toilet. i had to go on to bread. 

mr neutron: what about salad? 

mr smailes: teddy salad? 

mr neutron: no, no, no - salad - as in lettuces, radishes, cucumber... 

italian: you don't like it? 

carpenter: no, i didn't want to 

carpenter: eat 

carpenter: a salad. i wanted to find out about a man called salad. 

italian: you're the first person to order a salad for two years. all the eskimos eat here is fish, fish ... 

first eskimo: eskimos. 

second eskimo: where's our fish. we've finished our fish. 

italian: what fish you want today, uh? 

first eskimo: bream please. 

italian: bream! where do i get a bream this time of year? you bloody choosy eskimo pests. 

first eskimo: we are 

first eskimo: not 

first eskimo: eskimos! 

italian: why don't you like a nice plate of canelloni? 

eskimos: eurrrrghhh! 

first eskimo: that's not fish. 

italian: i've had my lot of the arctic circle. i wish i was back in oldham ... 

carpenter: do any of you eskimos ... speak ... english? 

first eskimo: we're not eskimos! 

third eskimo: i am. 

others: sh! 

italian: haddock! 

eskimos: where? 

carpenter: do any of... you ... know... a man ... called ... salad? 

first eskimo: what, salad as in... 

carpenter: lettuce, cucumbers, tomatoes ... yes. 

first eskimo: like you have on your plate? 

carpenter: yes. that's right. 

first eskimo: no, i'm afraid not. 

second eskimo: where's our fish? 

first eskimo: what does this teddy salad do? 

carpenter: he's a... er... hen-teaser. 

chairman: che cosa è la stucciacatori di polli? 

none: superimposed caption: 'what is a hen-teaser?' 

first eskimo: no, the only teddy salad we know is a cia man. 

carpenter: oh, he might know. 

carpenter: where will i find him? 

second eskimo: oh, he lives up at kipper sound. 

carpenter: thanks a lot. 

eskimos: fishy fishy iyoooiyooo. 

first eskimo: are you in international spying, too? 

carpenter: no... no... i'm with the... us ballet... force... who are you with? 

first eskimo: mi6. but not a word to the eskimos. 

eskimos: fishy fishy igooo. 

italian: here's your bloody fish. 

first eskimo: thank you, anouk. 

italian: i'm not an eskimo! 

carpenter: hey! hey! 

carpenter: hi! i'm carpenter of the us ballet. 

trapper: hey, great to have you around. the last decent ballet we got around here was ballet ramben..on thursday they did 'petrouchka', then on saturday they did 'fille mal gardée'. i thought it was a bit slow... 

carpenter: it sure is nice to see you, mr salad. 

trapper: i ain't salad. 

carpenter: what? 

trapper: you want teddy salad? 

carpenter: yeah ... 

carpenter: i don't see anyone. 

trapper: the one on the end, on the right. that's salad. 

carpenter: that's a dog! 

trapper: of it. 

carpenter: what do you mean? 

trapper: listen, teddy salad is the most brilliant agent the cia ever had, right? 

carpenter: right. 

trapper: that's how he made his name 

trapper: - disguise! 

carpenter: that's incredible! 

trapper: he had to slim down to one and a half pounds to get into that costume. he cut eighteen inches off each arm and over three feet off each leg. the most brilliant surgeon in europe stuck that tail on. 

carpenter: what about the head? 

trapper: all of the head was removed apart from the eyes and the brain in order to fit into the costume. 

trapper: d'you want to talk to him? 

carpenter: yeah, sure. 

trapper: ok, let's move over to those trees over there... anyone might be watching. 

trapper: mr salad? ... there's mr carpenter to see you. 

carpenter: what does he say? 

trapper: all right, you've got his trust, now, you can talk to him. 

carpenter: the general says you're the only one who'll know where to find him ... what's he say? 

trapper: he wants to go walkies. 

carpenter: walkies? 

trapper: yeah, he's right into it today - d'you mind taking him for walkies? 

voice over: while carpenter took the most brilliant agent the cia ever had for walkies, events in the world's capitals were moving fast! 

prime minister: very well, show him in. 

secretary of state: prime minister. 

prime minister: do take a seat. 

secretary of state: prime minister, we've just had the supreme commander us forces on the phone. apparently they want a full-scale red alert! 

prime minister: they what? 

secretary of state: they want a full-scale red alert - every troop movement... 

prime minister: it's all right - don't worry about giuseppe... 

prime minister: he's english really. 

secretary of state: well apparently the whole structure of world peace may be threatened unless we immediately... 

giuseppe: your anniversary, signore? 

prime minister: no, no, giuseppe - not now. 

giuseppe: you mean zis isn't ze lady? 

prime minister: no. 

giuseppe: oh, signora ... my mistake! i play for you 'my mistake'. 

giuseppe: 'oh my mistake...' 

prime minister: giuseppe, do you mind playing over there. 

giuseppe: very well, signor. but i play only for you... and your beautiful companion. 

secretary of state: well anyway, this mr neutron, is located somewhere in the london area. we must find and exterminate him. the americans say if we don't, they will. 

prime minister: what? 

secretary of state: the americans say if we won't 

secretary of state: they 

secretary of state: will! 

prime minister: that he doesn't know 

prime minister: what 

prime minister: ? 

secretary of state: they'll bomb the entire london area. 

secretary of state: they won't bomb 

secretary of state: here 

secretary of state: . 

prime minister: are you sure? 

secretary of state: sure. 

prime minister: right. when are they going to start? 

secretary of state: well apparently they haven't got neutron yet... but when they do... 

trapper: well. did he tell you anything? 

carpenter: no ... we chased sticks ... we chased a few reindeer... 

trapper: you been chasing reindeer, have you? you're a naughty boy... yes... ain't you a naughty boy... 

carpenter: look, we haven't got much time ... he hasn't given me any information yet... 

trapper: ok. tell you what, let's eat. you give him one of your meatballs, he'll tell you anything... ok? 

carpenter: ok. 

trapper: wait a minute - he's trying to tell us something. 

dog: carpenter ... er ... ugh ... ah...carpenter... 

carpenter: yes, mr salad? can you hear me? 

dog: yes... yes... it's just it's so goddam painful in here... what's the problem? 

carpenter: it's mr neutron, sir ... he's gone missing. the supreme commander wants you to take charge. 

dog: i ... oh god ... i ... i ... i... 

carpenter: yes, mr salad? 

dog: i gotta go walkies again. 

commander: ok. we'll bomb neutron out. get me moscow! peking! and shanklin, isle of wight! 

voice over: and so the great powers and the people of shanklin, isle of wight, drew their net in ever-tightening circles around the most dangerous threat to peace the world has ever faced. they bombed cairo, bangkok, cape town, buenos aires, harrow, hammersmith, stepney, wandsworth and enfield... but always it was the wrong place. 

loudspeaker: sorry enfield!... we apologize for any inconvenience caused by our bombing... sorry... 

voice over: but what of mr neutron, the most fearfully dangerous man in the world! the man who could destroy entire galaxies with his wrist, the man who could tear fruit machines apart with his eyeballs... he had not been idle! 

voice over: in fact he had fallen in love... with the lady who 'does' for mrs entrail... 

mrs scum: oh 'ello mr n, terrible about enfield, innit? it's all gone. so's staines ... lovely shops they used to have in staines... and stunmore, where the aa offices used to be. i don't know where we'll pay our aa subscriptions to now. do you know where we'll have to pay our aa. subscriptions to now, mr n? 

mr neutron: i didn't know you were a member of the aa mrs s.c.u.m. 

mrs scum: oh yes. ever since the corsair broke down in leyonstone ... they towed it all the way to deauville foc. 

mrs scum: free of charge. well my husband ken, k.e.n., he said... 

mr neutron: oh, forget about your husband, mrs s.c.u.m. - or may i call you mrs s? 

mrs scum: you can call me linda, if you like. 

mr neutron: no, i'd rather call you mrs s. 

mrs scum: oh... 

mr neutron: and you can call me mr n. 

mrs scum: well... that's what i was calling you. 

mr neutron: mrs s, there is something i have to tell you... 

mrs scum: yes, mr n? 

mr neutron: i have just won a kellogg's corn flake competition. 

mrs scum: oh mr n! that's wonderful! 

mr neutron: i got the ball in exactly the right place. the prize is £5,000 in cash, or as much ice cream as you can eat. 

mrs scum: £5,000! 

mr neutron: i was thinking of taking the ice cream. 

mrs scum: oh no! 

mr neutron: it's been so hot recently. 

mrs scum: you couldn't eat that much ice cream mr n. 

mr neutron: mrs s, i can eat enormous quantifies of ice cream without being sick. 

mrs scum: oh no! take the £5,000! please take the £5,000. 

mr neutron: i was thinking. if we got married... 

mrs scum: oh yes! 

mr neutron: we could use the £5,000 to buy a spoon... 

mrs scum: oh! we could buy a lot more than that! 

mr neutron: and then fill up with ice cream. 

mrs scum: no! forget about the ice cream. we need the money. 

mr neutron: we need nothing. for there is something i have not told you mrs s.c.u.m. 

mrs scum: oh please call me mrs s. 

mr neutron: no i would rather go back to calling you mrs s.c.u.m., mrs s.c.u.m. i am the most powerful man in the universe. there is nothing i cannot do. 

mrs scum: oh mr n. 

mr neutron: i want you to be my helpmate. as tarzan had his jane, as napoleon had his josephine, as frankie laine had whoever he had, i want you to help me in my plan to dominate the world! 

mrs scum: oh mr n. that i should be so lucky! 

mr neutron: you're not jewish are you? 

dog: another time when i was in cairo, i was disguised as a water hydrant. the whole top part of my head had been removed and... 

carpenter: please, mr salad .... you must tell us where neutron is. 

dog: and i functioned! d'you hear? i really worked. i could put out a fire. 

carpenter: please, mr salad... 

dog: mind you, it hurt a bit... 

carpenter: please, mr salad - there isn't much time. where will we find neutron? 

dog: ok. give me another meatball and i'll tell you. 

dog: ok listen carefully... i won't repeat this. you understand? 

carpenter: yes yes - quick. 

dog: i know where neutron is right now. i know the exact address and the exact house and the exact road... 

carpenter: ok where is he? 

dog: he's not in america... 

carpenter: no? 

dog: he's not in... asia! 

dog: he's not in.., australia! 

dog: he's in... europe! 

carpenter: yeah? 

dog: and you wanna know where in europe? 

carpenter: yeah! 

dog: ok. ok, i'll tell you. he's in england... in london... at number 19... 

commander: ok. that's the yukon - what's left? 

voice: only ruislip, the gobi desert, and your office, sir. 

commander: ok! let's start with my office. 

gpo official: ankwat i odr inkerat gobi desert ulverston road... 

none: subtitle: 'this new box completes the encirclement of the gobi desert' 

gpo official: ik artwar, hyaddin... 

none: subtitle: 'the post office is now in a position to achieve complete world domination' 

mr neutron: i will take you away from all this mrs s.c.u.m. 

mrs scum: oh, mr n... i'd follow you anywhere. 

mr neutron: we will have two weeks in benidorm. 

mrs scum: oh yes ... yes. 

mr neutron: and i will make you the most beautiful woman in the world. 

mrs scum: oh... it's beautiful... oh, mr n, you have made my heart sing... 

mrs scum: life's rich harvest is being... 

mr neutron: shut up, mrs s. we must hurry... 

mrs scum: i'd better leave a note for ken... he'll be expecting us... 

none: animation: 

voice over: has mr neutron escaped in time? is the world utterly destroyed? how can mr neutron and his child bride survive? will his mighty powers be of any avail against the holocaust? stay tuned to this channel. 

man: hello. well in fact what happens is that they are saved by mr neutron's mighty powers just as the last bomb falls on ruislip. 

none: superimposed caption: 'a man from the "radio times"' 

man: however, the earth has been blown off its axis, and in a most dramatic and dangerous and expensive sequence, it spins off into space. there are appallingly expensive scenes of devastation and horror and the final incredibly expensive climax is reached as thousands of ape monsters in very expensive costumes descend from the sky onto these, plug up a whole city which has to be specially built and fling them all into the sea very expensively. and we can see those very expensive scenes right now. 

man: just after the credits have gone through... incidentally, these are going to be the most expensive and lavish scenes ever filmed by the bbc in conjunction with time-life of course ... these are some of the technical people who have been involved in filming these very expensive scenes, expensive sound, expensive visual effects there, expensive production assistant, expensive designer... cheap director. well you can see those expensive scenes right now. 

none: caption: 'the end' 

man: oh come on you can give us another minute, mr cotton, please. 

<scene 'conjuring today'>

none: caption: 'conjuring today' 

conjurer: good evening, last week we learned how to saw a lady in half. this week we're going to learn how to saw a lady into three bits and dispose of the body... 

man: look if you can put on rubbish like that, and 'horse of the year show', you can afford us another minute, mr cotton, please, i mean look at this load of old... 

voice over: world domination t-shirts are available from bbc, world domination department, cardiff. 

<scene >

voice over: there now follows a party political broadcast on behalf of the liberal party... 

<scene 'most awful family in britain'>

radio voice: pratt... back to pratt... pratt again... a long ball out to pratt... and now pratt is on the ball, a neat little flick back inside to pratt, who takes it nicely and sends it through on the far side to pratt, pratt with it but passes instead to pratt, pratt again, oh and well intercepted by the swarthy little number nine, concito maracon. this twenty-one-year-old half back, remarkably stocky for 6' 3", square shouldered, balding giant, hair flowing in the wind, bright eyed, pert, young for his age but oh so old in so many ways. for a thirty-nine.year-old you wouldn't expect such speed. normally considered slow, he's incredibly fast as he wanders aimlessly around, sweeping up and taking the defence to the cleaners. who would have thought, though many expected it, that this remarkable forty-five-year-old, 9' 4" dwarf of a man, who is still only seventeen in some parts of the world, would ever really be ... oh and there was a goal there apparently ... and now it's pratt ... back to pratt... pratt again... a long ball to pratt... 

mr garibaldi: i like this ano-weet, it really unclogs me. 

mrs garibaldi: oh, do be careful. 

ralph garibaldi: sorry, mum. 

mr garibaldi: i mean a lot of others say they unclog you, but i never had a single bowel movement with the 'recto-puffs'. 

ralph garibaldi: now if we ... 

ralph garibaldi: oh, sorry, mum ... now if we lived in rhodesia there'd be someone to mop that up for you. 

valerie garibaldi: don't be so bleedin' stupid. if you lived in bleedin' rhodesia, you'd be out at bleedin' fascist rallies every bleedin' day. you're a bleedin' racist, you bleedin' are. 

mr garibaldi: language! 

valerie garibaldi: well he gets on my sodding wick. 

mr garibaldi: that's better. 

mr garibaldi: no, the stuff i liked was that stuff they gave us before the war, what was it - wilkinson's number 8 laxative cereal. phew. that one went through you like a bloody ferrari... 

mrs garibaldi: now, who's that at this time of day... 

mr garibaldi: if it's the man to empty the elsan, tell him it's in the hall. 

mrs garibaldi: right, dear. 

mr garibaldi: and make sure that you hold it the right way up! 

ralph garibaldi: dad... ? 

ralph garibaldi: no no, my dad... 

strange man: oh... 

ralph garibaldi: dad? why is rhodesia called rhodesia?... 

ralph garibaldi: oh sorry, dad. 

mrs garibaldi: no... no, really, thank you very much... no, thank you for calling, not today, thank you. good morning. 

mr garibaldi: who was that? 

mrs garibaldi: ? 

ralph garibaldi: i was just washing up... 

mrs garibaldi: go and sit down! 

ralph garibaldi: mum? do you know why rhodesia's called rhodesia? 

mr garibaldi: do you remember 'go-eazi'? they were hopeless... 

mr garibaldi: little black pellets... tasted foul and stuck inside you like flooring adhesive. 

valerie garibaldi: right, i'm off. 

mrs garibaldi: when are you coming back tonight? 

valerie garibaldi: 3 a.m. 

mrs garibaldi: i think it's disgusting... you a member of parliament. 

mr garibaldi: i heard you in the hall last night, snogging away. 

valerie garibaldi: i wasn't 

valerie garibaldi: snogging 

valerie garibaldi: ! 

mr garibaldi: sounded like snogging to me. i could hear his great wet slobbering lips going at yer ... and his hand going up yer... 

mrs garibaldi: dad! 

mrs garibaldi: no ... not you. 

strange man: oh! 

mrs garibaldi: just mind your language... 

ralph garibaldi: oh, sorry, mum. 

kevin garibaldi: i've run out of beans! 

valerie garibaldi: we was talking, we was not snogging. 

mr garibaldi: talking about snogging, i'll bet... 

valerie garibaldi: if you must know, we was talking about council re-housing. 

mrs garibaldi: would it mean going to live in hollywood? 

kevin garibaldi: i run out of beans! 

mr garibaldi: where to re-house his right hand, that's what he was interested in! 

mrs garibaldi: and has faye dunaway definitely said yes? 

valerie garibaldi: he is the chairman of the housing sub-committee. 

mr garibaldi: snogging sub-committee, more like... 

mrs garibaldi: ralph, do answer that door will you! 

kevin garibaldi: beans!! 

mrs garibaldi: shut up!! 

ralph garibaldi: yea, mum. 

mr garibaldi: if it's the man from the probbo-rib, tell him it's in the bed. 

kevin garibaldi: beans! beans! 

mrs garibaldi: shut up! 

presenter: a very good try there, by the garibaldi family of droitwich in worcestershire. professor... 

professor: well, i can't make up my mind about this family... i don't think there was the sustained awfulness that we really need. i mean, the father was appalling... 

lady organs: appalling... yes .... 

professor: he was dirty, smelly and distasteful ... and i liked him very much ... but... 

presenter: lady organs? 

lady organs: well ... they were an unpleasant family certainly, but i don't think we had enough of the really gross awfulness that we're looking for... 

presenter: well, harsh words there for the garibaldi family of droitwich in worcestershire, at present holders of the east midlands most awful family award - lower middle-class section but unable today to score more than fifteen on our disgustometer. well with the scores all in from the judges, the garibaldis are number three ... and a surprise number two ... the fanshaw-chumleighs of berkshire... 

first person: what a super meal. 

second person: absolutely super. pat and max are coming down from eton to help daddy count money. 

third person: how absolutely super. 

fourth person: my man at poirer's says i could have my whole body lifted for £5,500 

first person: how super... 

presenter: well, some of the wonderful behaviour that made the fanshaw-chumleighs the second most awful family in britain 1974. but the winners, by a clear ten point margin, are once again the awful jodrell family of durham. unfortunately, we're not allowed to show you some of the performance that won them an award, but i assure you it was of the very highest standard, was it not, lady organs? 

lady organs: oh, yes, superb ... mr jodrell - you know, the old grandfather, who licks the ... 

presenter: yes, yes... 

lady organs: he's superb. his gobbing is consistent and accurate. his son is a dirty foul little creature, and those frightful scabs which mrs jodrell licks off the cat are... 

presenter: well, thank you very much, lady organs ... and from all of us all, well done to the jodrells ... and to all of you, not forgetting those of you who may be halfway in between, without whom, of course, and not forgetting who made it all possible, when, and we'll be back, until then and so it's goodnight from me and here's wishing you a safe journey home, thank you for watching this show, don't forget it was all great fun, i've enjoyed it, and i hope you watching at home have enjoyed it too. 

mother: the jodrells win every bloody year... makes you vomit ... dad? 

dad: yes? 

mother: get your stinking feet off the bread. 

dad: i'm only wiping the cat's do's off. 

son: mum? 

mother: shut yet face, douglas. 

son: i wanted some corn-plasters. 

mother: shut up and eat what you got. 

dad: some fat bastard at the door! 

<scene icelandic honey week>

man: a strong hive of bees contains approximately 75,000 bees. each honey bee must make 154 trips to collect one teaspoon of honey. hello, sir. 

dad: what do you want? 

man: would you like to buy some of our honey, sir? 

mother: what you doing in here? 

man: which would you like, the californian orange blossom, the mexican, the new zealand, or the scottish heather? 

mother: he can't eat honey. it makes him go plop plops. 

man: come on, please try some. 

dad: all right i'll have some icelandic honey. 

man: no, there is no such thing. 

dad: you mean you don't make any honey at all? 

man: no, no, we must import it all. every bally drop. we are a gloomy people. it's so crikey cold and dark up there, and only fish to eat. fish and imported honey. oh strewth! 

mother: well why do you have a week? 

man: listen buster! in reykyavik it is dark for eight months of the year, and it's cold enough to freeze your wrists off and there's only golly fish to eat. administrative errors are bound to occur in enormous quantities. look at this - it's all a mistake. it's a real pain in the sphincter! icelandic honey week? my life! 

mother: well why do you come in here trying to flog the stuff, then? 

man: listen cowboy. i got a job to do. it's a stupid, pointless job but at least it keeps me away from iceland, all right? the leg of the worker bee has... 

<scene a doctor whose patients are stabbed by his nurse>

doctor: well, mr cotton, you have what we in the medical profession call a naughty complaint. my advice to you is to put this paper bag over your head - it has little holes there for your eyes, you see - and to ring this bell, and to take this card along to your hospital. 

doctor: hmm.,. hmm ... hippocratic oath ... it's not in there ... jolly good. very useful. next! 

doctor: ah, yes you must be mr williams. 

williams: y... yes... 

doctor: well, do take a seat. what seems to be the trouble? 

williams: i've... i've just been stabbed by your nurse... 

doctor: oh dear.... well i'd probably better have a look at you then. could you fill in this form first? 

williams: she just stabbed me... 

doctor: yes. she's an unpredictable sort. look, you seem to be bleeding rather badly. i think you'd better hurry up and fill in that form. 

williams: ahhh ... couldn't ... i ... do ... it ... later, doctor! 

doctor: no, no. you'd have bled to death by then. can you hold a pen? 

williams: i'll try. 

doctor: yes, it's a hell of a nuisance all this damn paperwork, really it is... 

doctor: it's a real nightmare, this damned paperwork. it really is a hell of a nuisance. something ought to be done about it. 

williams: do i have to answer all the questions, doctor? 

doctor: no, no, no, just fill in as many as you can - no need to go into too much detail. i don't know why we bother with it all, really, it's such a nuisance. well let's see how you've done, then... 

doctor: oh dear oh dear... that's not very good, is it. look, surely you knew number four! 

williams: no ... i didn't... 

doctor: it's from 'the merchant of venice' - even i know that! 

williams: it's going on the carpet, doctor. 

doctor: oh don't worry about that! look at this - number six - the treaty of versailles, didn't you know that? oh, my god. 

williams: ahgg... aghhh. 

doctor: and number nine - emerson fittipaldi! 

doctor: virginia wade? you must be mad! 

nurse: oh doctor, i've just shot another patient. i don't think there's any point in your seeing him. 

doctor: you didn't 

doctor: kill 

doctor: him, did you? 

nurse: 'fraid so. 

doctor: you mustn't 

doctor: them, nurse. 

nurse: oh, i'm sorry doctor. it was just on the spur of the moment. rather silly really. 

williams: i'm sorry about the carpet, doctor. 

doctor: mr williams, i'm afraid i can't give you any marks, so i won't be able to recommend you for hospital. tell you what - i'll stop the bleeding - but strictly speaking i shouldn't even do that on marks like these... 

nurse: there are no more patients now, doctor. 

doctor: oh well, let's go and have lunch, then. 

nurse: what about... er... 

doctor: ah yes - look, mr williams we're just popping out for a bite of lunch while we've got a spare moment, you know. look, have another bash at the form... and if at least you can answer the question on history right, then we may be able to give you some morphine or something like that, ok? 

williams: thank you, doctor, thank you. 

<scene brigadier and bishop>

brigadier: dear sir, i wish to protest in the strongest possible terms. yours sincerely, brigadier n. f. marwood-git (retired). read that back, will you, brian. 

bishop: and when he had built up cedron, he sent horsemen there, and an host of footmen to the end that issuing out they might make outroads upon the ways of judea, as the king commanded them... 

brigadier: good! pop it in an envelope and bung it off! it's no good bottling these things up, brian. if you feel them you must say them or you'll just go mad... 

bishop: oh yes indeed ... as the book of maccabee said ... ye as the flea is like unto an oxen, so is the privet hedge liken unto a botanist black in thy sight, o lord! 

brigadier: quite... look why don't you just nip out for lunch, brian... 

bishop: yea ... as raymond chandler said, it was one of those days when los angeles felt like a rock-hard fig. 

brigadier: brian, let's stop this pretending, shall we. 

bishop: oh... ye... as dirk bogarde said in his autobiography... 

brigadier: brian... let's stop all this futile pretence... i've... i've always been moderately fond of you... 

bishop: well to be quite frank, brigadier ... one can't walk so closely with a chap like you for... for so long without... feeling something deep down inside, even if it isn't anything... anything ... very much. 

brigadier: well, splendid... brian... er... well i don't suppose there's much we can do, really. 

bishop: not on television ... no... 

brigadier: no... they ... they are a lot more permissive these days than they used to be... 

bishop: ah yes... but not with this sort of thing... 

brigadier: no ... i suppose they've ... got to draw the line somewhere... 

bishop: yes... 

brigadier: well take a letter, brian. dear sir, i wish to protest... 

<scene appeal on behalf of extremely rich people>

sir pratt: i know it's only human to say, 'oh this will never happen to me', and of course, it won't. i'm asking you, please, please, send no contributions, however large, to me. 

<scene the man who finishes other peoples sentences>

mrs long name: all right, i'll go. 

tv voice: there now follows a party political broadcast on behalf of the liberal par... 

mr vernon: hello, madam... 

mrs long name: ah hello... you must have come about... 

mr vernon: finishing the sentences, yes. 

mrs long name: oh... well... perhaps you'd like to... 

mr vernon: come through this way... certainly... 

mr vernon: oh, nice place you've got here. 

mrs long name: yes ... well ... er... we... 

mr vernon: like it? 

mrs long name: yes ... yes we certainly... 

mr vernon: do... good! now then... when did you first start... 

mrs long name: ... finding it difficult to... 

mr vernon: finish sentences... yes. 

mrs long name: well it's not me, it's my... 

mr vernon: husband? 

mrs long name: yes. he... 

mr vernon: never lets you finish what you've started. 

mrs long name: quite. i'm beginning to feel... 

mr vernon: that you'll never finish a sentence again as long as you live. 

mrs long name: exact... 

mr vernon: ly. it must be awful. 

mrs long name: it's driving me... 

mr vernon: to drink? 

mrs long name: no, rou... 

mr vernon: nd the be... 

mrs long name: en... 

mr vernon: d... 

mrs long name: yes... 

mr vernon: may i... 

mrs long name: take a seat... 

mr vernon: thank you. 

mr vernon: you see, our method is to reassure the patient by recreating normal... er... 

mrs long name: conditions? 

mr vernon: yes. then we try to get them in a position where they suddenly find that they're completing other people's sentences... 

mrs long name: themselves! 

mr vernon: spot on mrs... 

mrs long name: smith? 

mr vernon: good! well, try not to overdo it to... 

mrs long name: begin with... ? 

mr vernon: good. just keep it to one or two... 

mrs long name: words .... 

mr vernon: to start off with, otherwise you may find that you're... 

mrs long name: taking on too long a sentence and getting completely ... er... 

mr vernon: stuck. good. yes. well that's about it... 

mrs long name: for now, so... 

mr vernon: thanks very much for calling. 

mrs long name: not at all. 

mr vernon: and, er... 

mrs long name: just like to say 

mr vernon: thank you very much for coming along. 

mrs long name: not at all 

mr vernon: and good... 

mrs long name: bye, mr... 

mr vernon: vernon. 

girl's voice: carl? 

mr vernon: yes, dear? 

girl's voice: i've just had another baby. 

mr vernon: oh, no! how many's that now? 

girl's voice: twelve since lunch... oh! there's another one! 

<scene david attenborough>

linkman: this is stonehenge ... and it's from here we go to africa. 

<scene the walking tree of dahomey>

attenborough: oh, super ... well, i've just been told that this is not in fact the legendary walking tree of dahomey, this is one of africa's many stationary trees, arborus barnbet gaseoignus. in fact we've just missed the walking tree... it left here at eight o'clock this morning... was heading off in that direction... so we'll see if we can go and catch it up. come on boys. 

attenborough: well, we're still keeping up with it, but it's setting a furious pace. early this morning we thought we'd spotted it, but it turned out to be an angolan sauntering tree, amazellus robin ray, out walking with a gambian sidling bush... 

attenborough: but, what rupert had in fact discovered was something very different... 

attenborough: the turkish little rude plant. 

<scene the batsmen of the kalahari>

voice: no, what they had come across was a tribe lost to man since time immemorial... the legendary batsmen of the kalahari... 

voice over: primitive customs still survive here as if the march of time had passed them by. but for all the mumbo-jumbo and superstition, the batsmen of the kalahari are formidable fighters, as we can see on this rare footage of them in action against warwickshire. 

<scene cricket match (assegais)>

commentator: warwickshire had dismissed the kalahari batsmen for 140, and then it was their turn to face this extraordinary kalahari attack. pratt was the first to go, but pratt and pratt put on a second wicket stand of nought, which was broken by odinga in his most hostile mood. 

voice over: thats b. pratt, hit wicket - 0. but pratt and z. pratt dug in and took the score to a half... 

none: caption: 'm.j.k. pratt' 

voice over: typical of umbonga's hostile opening spell was his dismissal of v.e. pratt, who offered no resistance to this delivery... 

voice over: ... and he was caught behind. 

presenter: but by lunch the situation had changed dramatically. 

presenter: and so with the tension colossal as we come up to the last ball ... that's all from us. 

<scene bbc news (handovers)>

newsreader: good evening. over 400,000 million pounds were wiped off the value of shares this afternoon, when someone in the stock exchange coughed. sport: capital punishment is to be re-introduced in the first and second division. any player found tackling from behind or controlling the ball with the lower part of the arm will be hanged. but the electric chair remains the standard punishment for threatening the goalie. referee's chairman, len goebbels said 'at last the referee has been given teeth'. finally, politics: the latest opinion poll published today shows labour ahead with 40%, the aa second with 38% and not surprisingly kentucky fried chicken running the liberals a very close third. and now back to me. hello. and now it's time to go over to hugh delaney in paignton. 

linkman: hello and welcome to paignton, because it's from paignton that we take you straight back to the studio. 

man: hello. and it's from here we go over there. 

presenter: well we're already here so let's go over there. 

newsreader: welcome back. and now it's time for part eight of our series about the life and work of ursula hifier, the surrey housewife who revolutionized british beekeeping in the nineteen-thirties. 



<scene 1>
 [wind] [clop clop]

arthur:  whoa there! [clop clop]


guard #1:  halt!  who goes there?

arthur:  it is i, arthur, son of uther pendragon, from the castle of camelot.  king of the britons, defeator of the saxons, sovereign of all england!

guard #1:  pull the other one!

arthur:  i am.  and this my trusty servant patsy. we have ridden the length and breadth of the land in search of knights who will join me in my court of camelot.  i must speak with your lord and master.

guard #1:  what, ridden on a horse?

arthur:  yes!

guard #1:  you're using coconuts!

arthur:  what?

guard #1:  you've got two empty halves of coconut and you're bangin' 'em together.

arthur:  so?  we have ridden since the snows of winter covered this land, through the kingdom of mercea, through--

guard #1:  where'd you get the coconut?

arthur:  we found them.

guard #1:  found them?  in mercea?  the coconut's tropical!

arthur:  what do you mean?

guard #1:  well, this is a temperate zone.

arthur:  the swallow may fly south with the sun or the house martin or the plumber may seek warmer climes in winter yet these are not strangers to our land.

guard #1:  are you suggesting coconuts migrate?

arthur:  not at all, they could be carried.

guard #1:  what -- a swallow carrying a coconut?

arthur:  it could grip it by the husk!

guard #1:  it's not a question of where he grips it!  it's a simple question of weight ratios!  a five ounce bird could not carry a 1 pound coconut.

arthur:  well, it doesn't matter.  will you go and tell your master that arthur from the court of camelot is here.

guard #1:  listen, in order to maintain air-speed velocity, a swallow needs to beat its wings 43 times every second, right?

arthur:  please!

guard #1:  am i right?

arthur:  i'm not interested!

guard #2:  it could be carried by an african swallow!

guard #1:  oh, yeah, an african swallow maybe, but not a european swallow, that's my point.

guard #2:  oh, yeah, i agree with that...

arthur:  will you ask your master if he wants to join my court at camelot?!

guard #1:  but then of course african swallows are not migratory.

guard #2:  oh, yeah...

guard #1:  so they couldn't bring a coconut back anyway... [clop clop]

guard #2:  wait a minute -- supposing two swallows carried it together?

guard #1:  no, they'd have to have it on a line.

guard #2:  well, simple!  they'd just use a standard creeper!

guard #1:  what, held under the dorsal guiding feathers?

guard #2:  well, why not?


<scene 2>


mortician:  bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead! [clang] bring out your dead!

customer:  here's one -- nine pence.

dead person:  i'm not dead!

mortician:  what?

customer:  nothing -- here's your nine pence.

dead person:  i'm not dead!

mortician:  here -- he says he's not dead!

customer:  yes, he is.

dead person:  i'm not!

mortician:  he isn't.

customer:  well, he will be soon, he's very ill.

dead person:  i'm getting better!

customer:  no, you're not -- you'll be stone dead in a moment.

mortician:  oh, i can't take him like that -- it's against regulations.

dead person:  i don't want to go in the cart!

customer:  oh, don't be such a baby.

mortician:  i can't take him...

dead person:  i feel fine!

customer:  oh, do us a favor...

mortician:  i can't.

customer:  well, can you hang around a couple of minutes?  he won't be long.

mortician:  naaah, i got to go on to robinson's -- they've lost nine today.

customer:  well, when is your next round?

mortician:  thursday.

dead person:  i think i'll go for a walk.

customer:  you're not fooling anyone y'know.  look, isn't there something you can do?

dead person:  i feel happy... i feel happy. [whop]

customer:  ah, thanks very much.

mortician:  not at all.  see you on thursday.

customer:  right. [clop clop]

mortician:  who's that then?

customer:  i don't know.

mortician:  must be a king.

customer:  why?

mortician:  he hasn't got shit all over him.


<scene 3>
 [clop clop]

arthur:  old woman!

dennis:  man!

arthur: old man, sorry.  what knight live in that castle over there?

dennis:  i'm thirty seven.

arthur:  what?

dennis:  i'm thirty seven -- i'm not old!

arthur:  well, i can't just call you `man'.

dennis:  well, you could say `dennis'.

arthur:  well, i didn't know you were called `dennis.'

dennis:  well, you didn't bother to find out, did you?

arthur:  i did say sorry about the `old woman,' but from the behind you looked--

dennis:  what i object to is you automatically treat me like an inferior!

arthur:  well, i am king...

dennis:  oh king, eh, very nice.  an' how'd you get that, eh?  by exploitin' the workers -- by 'angin' on to outdated imperialist dogma which perpetuates the economic an' social differences in our society! if there's ever going to be any progress--

woman:  dennis, there's some lovely filth down here.  oh -- how d'you do?

arthur:  how do you do, good lady.  i am arthur, king of the britons. who's castle is that?

woman:  king of the who?

arthur:  the britons.

woman:  who are the britons?

arthur:  well, we all are. we're all britons and i am your king.

woman:  i didn't know we had a king.  i thought we were an autonomous collective.

dennis:  you're fooling yourself.  we're living in a dictatorship.

a self-perpetuating autocracy in which the working classes--

woman:  oh there you go, bringing class into it again.

dennis:  that's what it's all about if only people would--

arthur:  please, please good people.  i am in haste.  who lives in that castle?

woman:  no one live there.

arthur:  then who is your lord?

woman:  we don't have a lord.

arthur:  what?

dennis:  i told you.  we're an anarcho-syndicalist commune.  we take it in turns to act as a sort of executive officer for the week.

arthur:  yes.

dennis:  but all the decision of that officer have to be ratified at a special biweekly meeting.

arthur:  yes, i see.

dennis:  by a simple majority in the case of purely internal affairs,--

arthur:  be quiet!

dennis:  --but by a two-thirds majority in the case of more--

arthur:  be quiet!  i order you to be quiet!

woman:  order, eh -- who does he think he is?

arthur:  i am your king!

woman:  well, i didn't vote for you.

arthur:  you don't vote for kings.

woman:  well, 'ow did you become king then?

arthur:  the lady of the lake, [angels sing] her arm clad in the purest shimmering samite, held aloft excalibur from the bosom of the water signifying by divine providence that i, arthur, was to carry excalibur. [singing stops] that is why i am your king!

dennis:  listen -- strange women lying in ponds distributing swords is no basis for a system of government.  supreme executive power derives from a mandate from the masses, not from some farcical aquatic ceremony.

arthur:  be quiet!

dennis:  well you can't expect to wield supreme executive power just 'cause some watery tart threw a sword at you!

arthur:  shut up!

dennis:  i mean, if i went around sayin' i was an empereror just because some moistened bint had lobbed a scimitar at me they'd put me away!

arthur:  shut up!  will you shut up!

dennis:  ah, now we see the violence inherent in the system.

arthur:  shut up!

dennis:  oh!  come and see the violence inherent in the system!

help! help! i'm being repressed!

arthur:  bloody peasant!

dennis:  oh, what a give away.  did you here that, did you here that, eh?  that's what i'm on about -- did you see him repressing me, you saw it didn't you?


<scene 4>
 [arg] [ugh] [hah]


arthur:  you fight with the strength of many men, sir knight.

i am arthur, king of the britons. [pause]

i seek the finest and the bravest knights in the land to join me in my court of camelot. [pause] you have proved yourself worthy; will you join me? [pause] you make me sad.  so be it.  come, patsy.

black knight:  none shall pass.

arthur:  what?

black knight:  none shall pass.

arthur:  i have no quarrel with you, good sir knight, but i must cross this bridge.

black knight:  then you shall die.

arthur:  i command you as king of the britons to stand aside!

black knight:  i move for no man.

arthur:  so be it! [hah] [parry thrust]

[arthur chops the black knight's left arm off]

arthur:  now stand aside, worthy adversary.

black knight:  'tis but a scratch.

arthur:  a scratch?  your arm's off!

black knight:  no, it isn't.

arthur:  well, what's that then?

black knight:  i've had worse.

arthur:  you liar!

black knight:  come on you pansy! [hah] [parry thrust]

[arthur chops the black knight's right arm off]

arthur:  victory is mine! [kneeling] we thank thee lord, that in thy merc- [hah]

black knight:  come on then.

arthur:  what?

black knight:  have at you!

arthur:  you are indeed brave, sir knight, but the fight is mine.

black knight:  oh, had enough, eh?

arthur:  look, you stupid bastard, you've got no arms left.

black knight:  yes i have.

arthur:  look!

black knight:  just a flesh wound. [bang]

arthur:  look, stop that.

black knight:  chicken!  chicken!

arthur:  look, i'll have your leg.  right! [whop]

black knight:  right, i'll do you for that!

arthur:  you'll what?

black knight:  come 'ere!

arthur:  what are you going to do, bleed on me?

black knight:  i'm invincible!

arthur:  you're a loony.

black knight:  the black knight always triumphs! have at you!  come on then. [whop]

[arthur chops the black knight's other leg off]

black knight:  all right; we'll call it a draw.

arthur:  come, patsy.

black knight:  oh, oh, i see, running away then.  you yellow bastards!  come back here and take what's coming to you. i'll bite your legs off!


<scene 5>


crowd:  a witch!  a witch!  a witch!  we've got a witch!  a witch!

villager #1:  we have found a witch, might we burn her?

crowd:  burn her!  burn!

bedemir:  how do you know she is a witch?

villager #2:  she looks like one.

bedemir:  bring her forward.

witch:  i'm not a witch.  i'm not a witch.

bedemir:  but you are dressed as one.

witch:  they dressed me up like this.

crowd:  no, we didn't... no.

witch:  and this isn't my nose, it's a false one.

bedemir:  well?

villager #1:  well, we did do the nose.

bedemir:  the nose?

villager #1:  and the hat -- but she is a witch!

crowd:  burn her!  witch!  witch!  burn her!

bedemir:  did you dress her up like this?

crowd:  no, no... no ... yes.  yes, yes, a bit, a bit.

villager #1:  she has got a wart.

bedemir:  what makes you think she is a witch?

villager #3:  well, she turned me into a newt.

bedemir:  a newt?

villager #3:  i got better.

villager #2:  burn her anyway!

crowd:  burn!  burn her!

bedemir:  quiet, quiet.  quiet!  there are ways of telling whether she is a witch.

crowd:  are there?  what are they?

bedemir:  tell me, what do you do with witches?

villager #2:  burn!

crowd:  burn, burn them up!

bedemir:  and what do you burn apart from witches?

villager #1:  more witches!

villager #2:  wood!

bedemir:  so, why do witches burn? [pause]

villager #3:  b--... 'cause they're made of wood...?

bedemir:  good!

crowd:  oh yeah, yeah...

bedemir:  so, how do we tell whether she is made of wood?

villager #1:  build a bridge out of her.

bedemir:  aah, but can you not also build bridges out of stone?

villager #2:  oh, yeah.

bedemir:  does wood sink in water?

villager #1:  no, no.

villager #2:  it floats!  it floats!

villager #1:  throw her into the pond!

crowd:  the pond!

bedemir:  what also floats in water?

villager #1:  bread!

villager #2:  apples!

villager #3:  very small rocks!

villager #1:  cider!

villager #2:  great gravy!

villager #1:  cherries!

villager #2:  mud!

villager #3:  churches -- churches!

villager #2:  lead -- lead!

arthur:  a duck.

crowd:  oooh.

bedemir:  exactly!  so, logically...,

villager #1:  if... she.. weighs the same as a duck, she's made of wood.

bedemir:  and therefore--?

villager #1:  a witch!

crowd:  a witch!

bedemir:  we shall use my larger scales! [yelling]

bedemir:  right, remove the supports! [whop] [creak]

crowd:  a witch!  a witch!

witch:  it's a fair cop.

crowd:  burn her!  burn!  [yelling]

bedemir:  who are you who are so wise in the ways of science?

arthur:  i am arthur, king of the britons.

bedemir:  my liege!

arthur:  good sir knight, will you come with me to camelot, and join us at the round table?

bedemir:  my liege!  i would be honored.

arthur:  what is your name?

bedemir:  bedemir, my leige.

arthur:  then i dub you sir bedemir, knight of the round table.
 [narrative interlude]


narrator:  the wise sir bedemir was the first to join king arthur's knights, but other illustrious names were soon to follow: sir launcelot the brave; sir galahad the pure; and sir robin the not-quite-so-brave-as-sir-launcelot who had nearly fought the dragon of agnor, who had nearly stood up to the vicious chicken of bristol and who had personally wet himself at the battle of badon hill; and the aptly named sir not-appearing-in-this-film.  together they formed a band whose names and deeds were to be retold throughout the centuries, the knights of the round table.


<scene 6>


bedemir:  and that, my liege, is how we know the earth to be banana-shaped.

arthur:  this new learning amazes me, sir bedemir.  explain again how sheeps' bladders may be employed to prevent earthquakes.

bedemir:  oh, certainly, sir.

launcelot:  look, my liege!

arthur:  camelot!

galahad:  camelot!

launcelot:  camelot!

patsy:  it's only a model.

arthur:  shhh!  knights, i bid you welcome to your new home.  let us ride... to camelot.
 [singing] we're knights of the round table we dance when e'er we're able we do routines and parlour scenes with footwork impecc-able.
 we dine well here in camelot we eat ham and jam and spam a lot
 [dancing]
 we're knights of the round table our shows are for-mid-able though many times we're given rhymes that are quite unsing-able we not so fat in camelot we sing from the diaphragm a lot
 [tap-dancing]
 oh we're tough and able quite indefatigable between our quests we sequin vests and impersonate clark gable it's a bit too loud in camelot

i have to push the pram a lot.


arthur:  well, on second thought, let's not go to camelot -- it is a silly place. right.


<scene 7>

god:  arthur!  arthur, king of the britons!  oh, don't grovel!  if there's one thing i can't stand, it's people groveling.

arthur:  sorry--

god:  and don't apologize.  every time i try to talk to someone it's "sorry this" and "forgive me that" and "i'm not worthy".  what are you doing now!?

arthur:  i'm averting my eyes, oh lord.

god:  well, don't.  it's like those miserable psalms-- they're so depressing.  now knock it off!

arthur:  yes, lord.

god:  right!  arthur, king of the britons -- your knights of the round table shall have a task to make them an example in these dark times.

arthur:  good idea, oh lord!

god: 'course it's a good idea!  behold!  arthur, this is the holy grail.  look well, arthur, for it is your sacred task to seek this grail. that is your purpose, arthur -- the quest for the holy grail.

arthur:  a blessing!

launcelot:  a blessing from the lord!

galahad:  god be praised!


<scene 8> [clop clop]

arthur:  halt!  hallo!  hallo!

guard:  'allo!  who is zis?

arthur:  it is king arthur, and these are the knights of the round table.  who's castle is this?

guard:  this is the castle of our master ruiz' de lu la ramper (sp?)

arthur:  go and tell your master that we have been charged by god with a sacred quest.  if he will give us food and shelter for the night he can join us in our quest for the holy grail.

guard:  well, i'll ask him, but i don't think he'll be very keen... uh, he's already got one, you see?

arthur:  what?

galahad:  he says they've already got one!

arthur:  are you sure he's got one?

guard:  oh, yes, it's very nice-a [to other guards]  i told him we already got one.

other guards: [laughing]

arthur:  well, um, can we come up and have a look?

guard:  of course not!  you are english types-a!

arthur:  well, what are you then?

guard:  i'm french!  why do think i have this outrageous accent, you silly king!

galahad:  what are you doing in england?

guard:  mind your own business!

arthur:  if you will not show us the grail, we shall take your castle by force!

guard:  you don't frighten us, english pig-dogs!  go and boil your bottoms, sons of a silly person.  i blow my nose at you, so-called arthur-king, you and all your silly english kaniggets.  thppppt!

galahad:  what a strange person.

arthur:  now look here, my good man!

guard:  i don't want to talk to you no more, you empty headed animal food trough whopper!  i fart in your general direction!  you mother was a hamster and your father smelt of eldeberries.

galahad:  is there someone else up there we could talk to?

guard:  no, now go away or i shall taunt you a second time-a!

arthur:  now, this is your last chance.  i've been more than reasonable.

guard:  (fetchez la vache.) wha?

guard:  (fetchez la vache!) [moo]

arthur:  if you do not agree to my commands, then i shall-- [twong] [mooooooo] jesus christ! right!  charge!

all: charge! [mayhem]

guard:  ah, this one is for your mother! [twong]

all:  run away!

guard:  thpppt!

launcelot:  fiends!  i'll tear them apart!

arthur:  no no, no.

bedemir:  sir!  i have a plan, sir.
 [later]
 [chop] [mrrrrrreeeeeeaaaaaaauuuuww] [rumble rumble squeak]

muttering guards:  ce labon a bunny do wha? un cadeau? a present! oh, un cadeau. oui oui hurry! wha-? let's go! [rumble rumble squeak]


arthur:  what happens now?

bedemir:  well, now, uh, launcelot, galahad, and i wait until nightfall, and then leap out of the rabbit, taking the french by surprise -- not only by surprise, but totally unarmed!

arthur:  who leaps out?

bedemir:  uh, launcelot, galahad, and i.  uh, leap out of the rabbit, uh and uh....

arthur:  oh....

bedemir:  oh....  um, l-look, if we built this large wooden badger-- [twong]

all:  run away!  run away!  run away!  run away! [splat]

guards:  oh, haw haw haw.


<scene 9>
 pictures for schools, take 8.

director:  action!


narrator:  defeat at the castle seems to have utterly disheartened king arthur.  the ferocity of the french taunting took him completely by surprise, and arthur became convinced that a new strategy was required if the quest for the holy grail were to be brought to a successful conclusion.  arthur, having consulted his closest knights, decided that they should separate, and search for the grail individually.  now, this is what they did-- [tromp tromp] [slash]

woman:  greg!


<scene 10>


narrator:  the tale of sir robin.... so each of the knights went their separate ways.  sir robin rode north, through the dark forest of ewing, accompanied by his favorite minstrels.


minstrel (singing):  
 bravely bold sir robin, rode forth from camelot. he was not afraid to die, o brave sir robin. he was not at all afraid to be killed in nasty ways. brave, brave, brave, brave sir robin!
 he was not in the least bit scared to be mashed into a pulp, or to have his eyes gouged out, and his elbows broken. to have his kneecaps split, and his body burned away, and his limbs all hacked and mangled, brave sir robin!
 his head smashed in and his heart cut out, and his liver removed and his bowels unplugged, and his nostrils ripped and his bottom burned off, and his penis--


robin:  that's -- that's, uh, that's enough music for now, lads. looks like there's dirty work afoot.

dennis:  anarcho-syndicalism is a way of preserving freedom.

woman:  oh, dennis, forget about freedom.  now i've dropped my mud.

all heads:  halt!  who art thou?

minstrel (singing):  he is brave sir robin, brave sir robin, who--

robin:  shut up!  um, n-n-nobody really, i'm j-just um, just passing through.

all heads:  what do you want?

minstrel (singing):  to fight, and--

robin:  shut up!  um, oo, n-nothing, nothing really -- i, uh, j-j-ust to um, just to p-pass through, good sir knight.

all heads:  i'm afraid not!

robin:  ah.  w-well, actually i am a knight of the round table.

all heads:  you're a knight of the round table?

robin:  i am.

left head:  in that case i shall have to kill you.

middle head:  shall i?

right head:  oh, i don't think so.

middle head:  well, what do i think?

left head:  i think kill him.

right head:  well let's be nice to him.

middle head:  oh shut up.

left head:  perhaps-

middle head:  and you.

left head:  oh quick get the sword out i want to cut his head off!

right head:  oh, cut your own head off!

middle head:  yes, do us all a favor!

left head:  what?

right head:  yapping on all the time.

middle head:  you're lucky.  you're not next to him.

left head:  what do you mean?

middle head:  you snore.

left head:  oh i don't -- anyway, you've got bad breath.

middle head:  well its only because you don't brush my teeth.

right head:  oh stop bitching and let's go have tea.

left head:  all right, all right, all right.  we'll kill him first and then have tea and biscuits.

middle head:  yes.

right head:  oh, but not biscuits.

left head:  all right, all right, not biscuits, but lets kill him anyway.

all heads:  right!

left head:  he buggered off.

right head:  so he has, he's scarpered.


minstrel (singing):  brave sir robin ran away

robin:  no!

minstrel (singing):  bravely ran away away

robin:  i didn't!

minstrel (singing):  when danger reared its ugly head, he bravely turned his tail and fled

robin:  no!

minstrel (singing):  yes brave sir robin turned about

robin:  i didn't!

minstrel (singing):  and gallantly he chickened out bravely taking to his feet

robin:  i never did!

minstrel (singing):  he beat a very brave retreat

robin:  oh, lie!

minstrel (singing):  bravest of the brave sir robin

robin:  i never!


<scene 11>


narrator:  the tale of sir galahad
 [boom crash] [angels singing]
 [pound pound pound]

galahad:  open the door! open the door! [pound pound pound] in the name of king arthur, open the door! [squeak thump] [squeak boom]

all:  hello!

zoot:  welcome gentle sir knight, welcome to the castle anthrax.

galahad:  the castle anthrax?

zoot:  yes... oh, it's not a very good name?  oh! but we are nice and we shall attend to your every, every need!

galahad:  you are the keepers of the holy grail?

zoot:  the what?

galahad:  the grail -- it is here?

zoot:  oh, but you are tired, and you must rest awhile.  midget! crepper!

midget and crepper:  yes, oh zoot!

zoot:  prepare a bed for our guest.

midget and crepper:  oh thank you thank you thank you--

zoot:  away away vile temptress!  the beds here are warm and soft -- and very, very big.

galahad:  well, look, i-i-uh--

zoot:  what is your name, handsome knight?

galahad:  sir galahad... the chaste.

zoot:  mine is zoot... just zoot.  oh, but come!

galahad:  look, please!  in god's name, show me the grail!

zoot:  oh, you have suffered much!  you are delirious!

galahad:  l-look, i have seen it!  it is here, in the--

zoot:  sir galahad!  you would not be so ungallant as to refuse our hospitality.

galahad:  well, i-i-uh--

zoot:  oh, i am afraid our life must seem very dull and quiet compared to yours.  we are but eight score young blondes and brunettes, all between sixteen and nineteen and a half, cut off in this castle with no one to protect us!  oh, it is a lonely life -- bathing, dressing, undressing, making exciting underwear....  we are just not used to handsome knights. nay, nay, come, come, you may lie here.  oh, but you are wounded!

galahad:  no, no -- i-it's nothing!

zoot:  oh, but you must see the doctors immediately!  no, no, please, lie down. [clap clap]

piglet:  ah.  what seems to be the trouble?

galahad:  they're doctors?!

zoot:  uh, they've had a basic medical training, yes.

galahad:  b-but--

zoot:  oh, come come, you must try to rest!  doctor piglet,  doctor winston, practice your art.

piglet:  try to relax.

galahad:  are you sure that's necessary?

piglet:  we must examine you.

galahad:  there's nothing wrong with that!

piglet:  please -- we are doctors.

galahad:  get off the bed!  i am sworn to chastity!

piglet:  back to your bed!

galahad:  torment me no longer!  i have seen the grail!

piglet:  there's no grail here.

galahad:  i have seen it, i have seen it.  i have seen--

girls:  hello.

galahad:  oh--

various girls:  hello. hello. hello. hello. hello. hello. hello. hello. hello. hello. hello. hello.

galahad:  zoot!

dingo:  no, i am zoot's identical twin sister, dingo.

galahad:  oh, well, excuse me, i--

dingo:  where are you going?

galahad:  i seek the grail!  i have seen it, here in this castle!

dingo:  no!  oh, no!  bad, bad zoot!

galahad:  what is it?

dingo:  oh, wicked, bad, naughty zoot!  she has been setting alight to our beacon, which, i just remembered, is grail-shaped.  it's not the first time we've had this problem.

galahad:  it's not the real grail?

dingo:  oh, wicked, bad, naughty, evil zoot!  oh, she is a naughty person, and she must pay the penalty -- and here in castle anthrax, we have but one punishment for setting alight the grail-shaped beacon.  you must tie her down on a bed and spank her!

girls:  a spanking!  a spanking!

dingo:  you must spank her well.  and after you have spanked her, you may deal with her as you like.  and then, spank me.

various girls:  and spank me. and me. and me.

dingo:  yes, yes, you must give us all a good spanking!

girls:  a spanking!  a spanking!

dingo:  and after the spanking, the oral sex.

girls:  oral sex!  oral sex!

galahad:  well, i could stay a bit longer.

launcelot:  sir galahad!

galahad:  oh, hello.

launcelot:  quick!

galahad:  what?

launcelot:  quick!

galahad:  why?

launcelot:  you're in great peril!

launcelot:  silence, foul temptress!

galahad:  now look, it's not important.

launcelot:  quick!  come on and we'll cover your escape!

galahad:  look, i'm fine!

launcelot:  come on!

galahad:  now look, i can tackle this lot single-handed!

dingo:  yes!  let him tackle us single-handed!

girls:  yes!  tackle us single-handed!

launcelot:  no, sir galahad, come on!

galahad:  no, really, honestly, i can go back and handle this lot easily!

dingo:  oh, yes, he can handle us easily.

girls:  yes, yes!

galahad:  wait!  i can defeat them!  there's only a hundred and fifty of them!

dingo:  yes, yes, he'll beat us easily, we haven't a chance.

girls:  yes, yes. [boom]

dingo:  oh, shit. [outside]

launcelot:  we were in the nick of time, you were in great peril.

galahad:  i don't think i was.

launcelot:  yes you were, you were in terrible peril.

galahad:  look, let me go back in there and face the peril.

launcelot:  no, it's too perilous.

galahad:  look, i'm a knight, i'm supposed to get as much peril as i can.

launcelot:  no, we've got to find the holy grail.  come on!

galahad:  well, let me have just a little bit of peril?

launcelot:  no, it's unhealthy.

galahad:  bet you're gay!

launcelot:  no, i'm not.
 narrative interlude 2


narrator:  sir launcelot had saved sir galahad from almost certain temptation, but they were still no nearer the grail.  meanwhile, king arthur and sir bedemir, not more than a swallow's flight away, had  discovered something.  oh, that's an unladen swallow's flight, obviously. i mean, they were more than two laden swallow's flights away -- four, really, if they hadn't a cord of line between them.

i mean, if the birds were walking and dragging--

crowd:  get on with it!

narrator:  oh, anyway, on to scene twenty-four, which is a smashing scene with some lovely acting, in which arthur discovers a vital clue, in which there aren't any swallows, although i think you can hear a starling -oolp!


<scene 24>


old man:  ah, hee he he ha!

arthur:  and this enchanter of whom you speak, he has seen the grail?

old man:  ha ha he he he he!

arthur:  where does he live?  old man, where does he live?

old man:  he knows of a cave, a cave which no man has entered.

arthur:  and the grail... the grail is there?

old man:  very much danger, for beyond the cave lies the gorge of eternal peril, which no man has ever crossed.

arthur:  but the grail!  where is the grail!?

old man:  seek you the bridge of death.

arthur:  the bridge of death, which leads to the grail?

old man:  hee hee ha ha!



<scene 25>


head knight:  nee! nee! nee! nee!

arthur:  who are you?

head knight:  we are the knights who say... nee!

arthur:  no!  not the knights who say nee!

head knight:  the same!

bedemir:  who are they?

head knight:  we are the keepers of the sacred words:  nee, pen, and nee-wom!

random:  nee-wom!

arthur:  those who hear them seldom live to tell the tale!

head knight:  the knights who say nee demand a sacrifice!

arthur:  knights of nee, we are but simple travellers who seek the enchanter who lives beyond these woods.

head knight:  nee!  nee!  nee!  nee!

arthur and party:  oh, ow!

head knight:  we shall say 'nee' again to you if you do not appease us.

arthur:  well, what is it you want?

head knight:  we want... a shrubbery! [dramatic chord]

arthur:  a what?

head knight:  nee!  nee!

arthur and party:  oh, ow!

arthur:  please, please!  no more!  we shall find a shrubbery.

head knight:  you must return here with a shrubbery or else you will never pass through this wood alive!

arthur:  o knights of nee, you are just and fair, and we will return with a shrubbery.

head knight:  one that looks nice.

arthur:  of course.

head knight:  and not too expensive.

arthur:  yes.

head knights:  now... go!


<scene 26>


narrator:  the tale of sir launcelot.


father:  one day, lad, all this will be yours!

erbert:  what, the curtains?

father:  no, not the curtains, lad.  all that you can see!  stretched out over the hills and valleys of this land!  this'll be your kingdom, lad!

herbert:  but, mother--

father:  father, i'm father.

herbert:  but father, i don't want any of that.

father:  listen, lad.  i've built this kingdom up from nothing.  when

i started here, all there was was swamp.  all the kings said i was daft to build a castle in a swamp, but i built it all the same, just to show 'em.  it sank into the swamp.  so, i built a second one. that sank into the swamp.  so i built a third one.  that burned down, fell over, then sank into the swamp.  but the fourth one stayed up. an' that's what your gonna get, lad -- the strongest castle in these islands.

herbert:  but i don't want any of that -- i'd rather--

father:  rather what?!

herbert:  i'd rather... just... [music] ...sing!

father:  stop that, stop that!  you're not going to do a song while i'm here.  now listen lad, in twenty minutes you're getting married to a girl whose father owns the biggest tracts of open land in britain.

herbert:  but i don't want land.

father:  listen, alex,--

herbert:  herbert.

father:  herbert.  we live in a bloody swamp.  we need all the land we can get.

herbert:  but i don't like her.

father:  don't like her?!  what's wrong with her?  she's beautiful, she's rich, she's got huge... tracts of land.

herbert:  i know, but i want the girl that i marry to have... a certain... special... [music] ...something...

father:  cut that out, cut that out.  look, you're marryin' princess lucky, so you'd better get used to the idea. [smack]  guards!  make sure the prince doesn't leave this room until i come and get 'im.

guard #1:  not to leave the room even if you come and get him.

guard #2:  hic!

father:  no, no.  until i come and get 'im.

guard #1:  until you come and get him, we're not to enter the room.

father:  no, no, no.  you stay in the room and make sure 'e doesn't leave.

guard #1:  and you'll come and get him.

guard #2:  hic!

father:  right.

guard #1:  we don't need to do anything, apart from just stop him entering the room.

father:  no, no.  leaving the room.

guard #1:  leaving the room, yes.

father:  all right?

guard #1:  right.  oh, if-if-if, uh, if-if-if, uh, if-if-if we...

father:  yes, what is it?

guard #1:  oh, if-if, oh--

father:  look, it's quite simple.

guard #1:  uh...

father:  you just stay here, and make sure 'e doesn't leave the room. all right?

guard #2:  hic!

father:  right.

guard #1:  oh, i remember.  uh, can he leave the room with us?

father:  n- no no no.  you just keep him in here, and make sure--

guard #1:  oh, yes, we'll keep him in here, obviously.  but if he had to leave and we were--

father:  no, no, just keep him in here--

guard #1:  until you, or anyone else,--

father:  no, not anyone else, just me--

guard #1:  just you.

guard #2:  hic!

father:  get back.

guard #1:  get back.

father:  right?

guard #1:  right, we'll stay here until you get back.

father:  and, uh, make sure he doesn't leave.

guard #1:  what?

father:  make sure 'e doesn't leave.

guard #1:  the prince?

father:  yes, make sure 'e doesn't leave.

guard #1:  oh, yes, of course.  i thought you meant him.  y'know, it seemed a bit daft, me havin' to guard him when he's a guard.

father:  is that clear?

guard #2:  hic!

guard #1:  oh, quite clear, no problems.

father:  right. [starts to leave] where are you going?

guard #1:  we're coming with you.

father:  no no, i want you to stay 'ere and make sure 'e doesn't leave.

guard #1:  oh, i see.  right.

herbert:  but, father!

father:  shut your noise, you!  and get that suit on!  and no singing!

guard #2:  hic!

father:  oh, go get a glass of water.


<scene 27>


launcelot:  well taken, concorde!

concorde:  thank you, sir!  most kind.

launcelot:  and again... over we go!  good.  steady!  and now, the big one...ooof!  come on, concorde! [thwonk]

concorde:  message for you, sir. [fwump]

launcelot:  concorde!  concorde, speak to me!  "to whoever finds this note, i have been imprisoned by my father, who wishes me to marry against my will.  please, please, please come and rescue me.  i am in the tall tower of swamp castle."  at last!  a call, a cry of distress!  this could be the sign that leads us to the holy grail! brave, brave concorde!  you shall not have died in vain!

concorde:  uh, i'm-i'm not quite dead, sir.

launcelot:  well, you shall not have been mortally wounded in vain!

concorde:  uh, i-i think uh, i could pull through, sir.

launcelot:  oh, i see.

concorde:  actually, i think i'm all right to come with you--

launcelot:  no, no, sweet concorde!  stay here!  i will send help as soon as i have accomplished a daring and heroic rescue in my own particular... (sigh)

concorde:  idiom, sir?

launcelot:  idiom!

concorde:  no, i feel fine, actually, sir.

launcelot:  farewell, sweet concorde!

concorde:  i'll-uh, i'll just stay here, then, shall i, sir?  yeah.


<scene 28>


launcelot:  ha-ha! etc.

guard #1:  now, you're not allowed to come in here, and we're-ugh!

launcelot:  o fair one, behold your humble servant sir launcelot of camelot.  i have come to take -- oh, i'm terribly sorry.

herbert:  you got my note!

launcelot:  uh, well, i got a note.

herbert:  you've come to rescue me!

launcelot:  uh, well, no, you see...

herbert:  i knew that someone would, i knew that somewhere out there... there must be... [music] ...someone...

father:  stop that, stop that, stop it!  stop it!  who are you?

herbert:  i'm your son!

father:  no, not you.

launcelot:  i'm sir launcelot, sir.

herbert:  he's come to rescue me, father.

launcelot:  well, let's not jump to conclusions.

father:  did you kill all the guard?

launcelot:  uh..., oh, yes.  sorry.

father:  they cost fifty pounds each.

launcelot:  well, i'm awfully sorry, i'm -- i really can explain everything.

herbert:  don't be afraid of him, sir launcelot, i've got a rope all ready!

father:  you killed eight wedding guests in all!

launcelot:  well, you see, the thing is, i thought your son was a lady.

father:  i can understand that.

herbert:  hurry, sir launcelot!  hurry!

father:  shut up!  you only killed the bride's father, that's all!

launcelot:  well, i really didn't mean to...

father:  didn't mean to?!  you put your sword right through his head!

launcelot:  oh, dear.  is he all right?

father:  you even kicked the bride in the chest!  this is going to cost me a fortune!

launcelot:  well, i can explain.  i was in the forest, um, riding north from camelot, when i got this note, you see--

father:  camelot?  are you from, uh, camelot?

herbert:  hurry, sir launcelot!

launcelot:  uh, i am a knight of king arthur, sir.

father:  pretty nice castle, camelot.  uh, pretty good pig country....

launcelot:  yes.

herbert:  hurry, i'm ready!

father:  would you, uh, like to come and have a drink?

launcelot:  well, that's, uh, awfully nice of you.

herbert:  i am ready! [starts to leave]

launcelot:  --i mean to be, so understanding. [thonk]

herbert:  oooh!

launcelot:  um, i think when i'm in this  idiom, i sometimes get a bit, uh, sort of carried away.

father:  oh, don't worry about that.

herbert:  oooh! [splat]


<scene 29>
 [wailing]

father:  well, this is the main hall.  we're going to have all this knocked through, and made into one big, uh, living room.

random:  there he is!

father:  oh, bloody hell.

launcelot:  ha-ha! etc.

father:  hold it, hold it!  please!

launcelot:  sorry, sorry.  see what i mean, i just get carried away.

i really must -- sorry, sorry!  sorry, everyone.

random:  he's killed the best man! [yelling]

father:  hold it, please!  hold it!  this is sir launcelot from the court of camelot -- a very brave and influential knight, and my special guest here today.

launcelot:  hello.

random:  he killed my auntie! [yelling]

father:  please, please!  this is supposed to be a happy occasion! let's not bicker and argue about who killed who.  we are here today to witness the union of two young people in the joyful bond of the holy wedlock.  unfortunately, one of them, my son herbert, has just fallen to his death.  but i think i've not lost a son, so much as... gained a daughter!  for, since the tragic death of her father--

random:  he's not quite dead!

father:  since the near fatal wounding of her father--

random:  he's getting better!

father:  for, since her own father... who, when he seemed about to recover, suddenly felt the icy hand of death upon him,... [ugh]

random:  oh, he's died!

father:  and i want his only daughter to look upon me... as her own dad -- in a very real, and legally binding sense. [clapping] and i feel sure that the merger -- uh, the union -- between the princess and the brave, but dangerous, sir launcelot of camelot...

launcelot:  what?

random:  look!  the dead prince!

concorde:  he's not quite dead!

herbert:  oh, i feel much better.

father:  you fell out of the tower, you creep!

herbert:  no, i was saved at the last minute.

father:  how?!

herbert:  well, i'll tell you... [music]

father:  not like that!  not like that!  no, stop it!

singing:  he's going to tell!  he's going to tell!

father:  shut up!

singing:  he's going to tell!  he's going to tell! he's going to tell!  he's going to tell! he's going to tell!  he's going to tell! he's going to tell!  he's going to tell!

concorde:  quickly, sir!  this way!

launcelot:  no, it's not in my idiom!  i must escape more....(sigh)

concorde:  dramatically, sir?

launcelot:  dramatically!  hee!  ha! [crash] excuse me, could, uh, could somebody give me a push, please...?


<scene 30>
 [clop clop]

arthur:  old crone!  is there anywhere in this town where we could buy a shrubbery! [dramatic chord]

crone:  who sent you?

arthur:  the knights who say nee.

crone:  agh!  no!  never!  we have no shrubberies here.

arthur:  if you do not tell us where we can buy a shrubbery, my friend and i will say... we will say... `nee'.

crone:  agh!  do your worst!

arthur:  very well!  if you will not assist us voluntarily,... nee!

crone:  no!  never!  no shrubberies!

arthur:  nee!

bedemir:  noo!  noo!

arthur:  no, no, no, no -- it's not that, it's 'nee'.

bedemir:  noo!

arthur:  no, no -- 'nee'.  you're not doing it properly.

bedemir:  noo!  nee!

arthur:  that's it, that's it, you've got it.

arthur and bedemir:  nee!  nee!

roger:  are you saying 'nee' to that old woman?

arthur:  um, yes.

roger:  oh, what sad times are these when passing ruffians can say `nee' at will to old ladies.  there is a pestilence upon this land, nothing is sacred.  even those who arrange and design shrubberies are under considerable economic stress at this period in history.

arthur:  did you say `shrubberies'?

roger:  yes, shrubberies are my trade -- i am a shrubber.  my name is roger the shrubber.  i arrange, design, and sell shrubberies.

bedemir:  nee!

arthur:  no!  no, no, no!  no!


<scene 31>


arthur:  o, knights of nee, we have brought you your shrubbery.  may we go now?

head knight:  it is a good shrubbery.  i like the laurels particularly. but there is one small problem.

arthur:  what is that?

head knight:  we are now... no longer the knights who say nee.

random:  nee!

head knight:  shh shh.  we are now the knights who say ecky-ecky-ecky- ecky-pikang-zoom-boing-mumble-mumble.

random:  nee!

head knight:  therefore, we must give you a test.

arthur:  what is this test, o knights of-- knights who 'til recently said nee?

head knight:  firstly, you must find... another shrubbery! [dramatic chord]

arthur:  not another shrubbery!

head knight:  then, when you have found the shrubbery, you must place it here beside this shrubbery, only slightly higher so you get a two-level effect with a little path running down the middle.

random:  a path!  a path!  nee!

head knight:  then, when you have found the shrubbery, you must cut down the mightiest tree in the forest... with... a herring! [dramatic chord]

arthur:  we shall do no such thing!

head knight:  oh, please!

arthur:  cut down a tree with a herring?  it can't be done.

knights:  aaaaugh!  aaaugh!

head knight:  don't say that word.

arthur:  what word?

head knight:  i cannot tell, suffice to say is one of the words the knights of nee cannot hear.

arthur:  how can we not say the word if you don't tell us what it is?

knights:  aaaaugh!  aaaugh!

arthur:  what, `is'?

head knight:  no, not `is' -- we couldn't get vary far in life not saying `is'.

bedemir:  my liege, it's sir robin!

minstrel (singing):  packing it in and packing it up and sneaking away and buggering up and chickening out and pissing about yes, bravely he is throwing in the sponge

arthur:  oh, robin!

robin:  my liege!  it's good to see you!

knights:  aaaaugh!

head knight:  he said the word!

arthur:  surely you've not given up your quest for the holy grail?

minstrel (singing):  he is sneaking away and buggering up--

robin:  shut up!  no, no no-- far from it.

head knight:  he said the word again!

robin:  i was looking for it.

knights:  aaaaugh!

robin:  uh, here, here in this forest.

arthur:  no, it is far from--

knights:  aaaaugh!

head knight:  aaaaugh!  stop saying the word!

arthur:  oh, stop it!

knights:  aaaaugh!

head knight:  oh!  he said it again!

arthur:  patsy!

head knight:  aaugh!  i said it!  i said it!  ooh!  i said it again!

knights:  aaaaugh!
 narrative interlude 3


narrator:  and so arthur and bedemir and sir robin set out on their search to find the enchanter of whom the old man had spoken in scene 24. beyond the forest they met launcelot and galahad, and there was much rejoicing.

all:  yay!  yay!

narrator:  in the frozen land of nador they were forced to eat robin's minstrels.  and there was much rejoicing.

all:  yay!

narrator:  a year passed.  winter changed into spring.  spring changed into summer.  summer changed back into winter.  and winter gave spring and summer a miss and went straight on into autumn.  until one day...


<scene 32>


arthur:  knights!  forward! [boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom] what manner of man are you that can summon up fire without flint or tinder?

tim:  i... am an enchanter.

arthur:  by what name are you known?

tim:  there are some who call me... tim?

arthur:  greetings, tim the enchanter.

tim:  greetings, king arthur!

arthur:  you know my name?

tim:  i do. [zoosh] you seek the holy grail!

arthur:  that is our quest.  you know much that is hidden, o tim.

tim:  quite. [pweeng boom] [clap clap clap]

arthur:  yes, we're, we're looking for the grail.  our quest is to find the holy grail.

knights:  it is, yes, yup, yes, yeah.

arthur:  and so we're, we're, we're, we're looking for it.

knights:  yes we are we are.

bedemir:  we have been for some time.

robin:  ages.

arthur:  uh, so, uh, anything you can do to, uh, to help, would be... very... helpful...

galahad:  look, can you tell us wh- [boom]

arthur:  fine, um, i don't want to waste anymore of your time, but, uh

i don't suppose you could, uh, tell us where we might find a, um, find a, uh, a, um, a uh--

tim:  a what...?

arthur:  a g--, a g--

tim:  a grail?!

arthur:  yes, i think so.

knights:  yes, that's it.  yes.

tim:  yes!

knights:  oh, thank you, splendid, fine. [boom pweeng boom boom]

arthur:  look, you're a busy man, uh--

tim:  yes, i can help you find the holy grail.

knights:  oh, thank you.

tim:  to the north there lies a cave -- the cave of kyre banorg -- wherein, carved in mystic runes upon the very living rock, the last words of ulfin bedweer of regett [boom] proclaim the last resting place of the most holy grail.

arthur:  where could we find this cave, o tim?

tim:  follow!  but! follow only if ye be men of valor, for the entrance to this cave is guarded by a creature so foul, so cruel that no man yet has fought with it and lived!  bones of four fifty men lie strewn about its lair. so, brave knights, if you do doubt your courage or your strength, come no further, for death awaits you all with nasty big pointy teeth.

arthur:  what an eccentric performance.


<scene 33>
 [clop clop whinny]

knight:  they're nervous, sire.

arthur:  then we'd best leave them here and carry on on foot.  dis-mount!

tim:  behold the cave of kyre banorg!

arthur:  right!  keep me covered.

knight:  what with?

arthur:  just keep me covered.

tim:  too late! [chord]

arthur:  what?

tim:  there he is!

arthur:  where?

tim:  there!

arthur:  what, behind the rabbit?

tim:  it is the rabbit!

arthur:  you silly sod!  you got us all worked up!

tim:  well, that's no ordinary rabbit.  that's the most foul, cruel, and bad-tempered rodent you ever set eyes on.

robin:  you tit!  i soiled my armor i was so scared!

tim:  look, that rabbit's got a vicious streak a mile wide, it's a killer!

knight:  get stuffed!

tim:  it'll do you a trick, mate!

knight:  oh, yeah?

robin:  you mangy scot git!

tim:  i'm warning you!

robin:  what's he do, nibble your bum?

tim:  he's got huge, sharp-- he can leap about-- look at the bones!

arthur:  go on, boris.  chop his head off!

boris:  right!  silly little bleeder.  one rabbit stew comin' right up!

tim:  look! [squeak]

boris:  aaaugh! [chord]

arthur:  jesus christ!

tim:  i warned you!

robin:  i peed again!

tim:  i warned you!  but did you listen to me?  oh, no, you knew it all, didn't you?  oh, it's just a harmless little bunny, isn't it?  well, it's always the same,  i always--

arthur:  oh, shut up!

tim:  --but do they listen to me?--

arthur:  right!

tim:  -oh, no--

knights:  charge! [squeak squeak]

knights:  aaaaugh!  aaaugh! etc.

knights:  run away!  run away!

tim:  haw haw haw.  haw haw haw.  haw haw.

arthur:  right.  how many did we lose?

knight:  gawain.

knight:  hector.

arthur:  and boris.  that's five.

galahad:  three, sir.

arthur:  three.  three.  and we'd better not risk another frontal assault, that rabbit's dynamite.

robin:  would it help to confuse it if we run away more?

arthur:  oh, shut up and go and change your armor.

galahad:  let us taunt it!  it may become so cross that it will make a mistake.

arthur:  like what?

galahad:  well,....

arthur:  have we got bows?

knight:  no.

launcelot:  we have the holy hand grenade.

arthur:  yes, of course!  the holy hand grenade of antioch!  'tis one of the sacred relics brother maynard carries with him!  brother maynard! bring up the holy hand grenade! [singing] how does it, uh... how does it work?

knight:  i know not, my liege.

arthur:  consult the book of armaments!

maynard:  armaments, chapter two, verses nine to twenty-one.

brother:  "and saint atila raised the hand grenade up on high, saying, 'oh, lord, bless this thy hand grenade that with it thou mayest blow thy enemies to tiny bits, in thy mercy.'  and the lord did grin, and people did feast upon the lambs, and sloths, and carp, and anchovies, and orangutans, and breakfast cereals, and fruit bats, and large --"

maynard:  skip a bit, brother.

brother:  "and the lord spake, saying, 'first shalt thou take out the holy pin.  then, shalt thou count to three, no more, no less.  three shalt be the number thou shalt count, and the number of the counting shalt be three.  four shalt thou not count, nor either count thou two, excepting that thou then proceed to three.  five is right out.  once the number three, being the third number, be reached, then lobbest thou thy holy hand grenade of antioch towards thou foe, who being naughty in my sight, shall snuff it.'"

maynard:  amen.

all:  amen.

arthur:  right!  one... two... five!

knight:  three, sir!

arthur:  three! [boom]


<scene 34>


knight:  there!  look!

launcelot:  what does it say?

galahad:  what language is that?

arthur:  brother maynard, you're our scholar!

maynard:  it's aramaic!

galahad:  of course!  joseph of aramathea!

launcelot:  course!

knight:  what does it say?

maynard:  it reads, 'here may be found the last words of joseph of aramathea.  he who is valiant and pure of spirit may find the holy grail in the castle of uuggggggh'.

arthur:  what?

maynard: '... the castle of uuggggggh'.

bedemir:  what is that?

maynard:  he must have died while carving it.

launcelot:  oh, come on!

maynard:  well, that's what it says.

arthur:  look, if he was dying, he wouldn't bother to carve 'aaggggh'. he'd just say it!

maynard:  well, that's what's carved in the rock!

galahad:  perhaps he was dictating.

arthur:  oh, shut up.  well, does it say anything else?

maynard:  no.  just, 'uuggggggh'.

launcelot:  aauuggghhh.

knight:  aaauggh.

bedemir:  you don't suppose he meant the camauuuugh?

knight:  where's that?

bedemir:  france, i think.

launcelot:  isn't there a saint aauuuves in cornwall?

arthur:  no, that's saint ives.

launcelot:  oh, yes.  saint iiiives.

several:  iiiiives.

bedemir:  oooohoohohooo!

launcelot:  no, no, aauuuuugh, at the back of the throat.  aauuugh.

bedemir:  no, no, no, oooooooh, in surprise and alarm.

launcelot:  oh, you mean sort of a aaaagh!

bedemir:  yes, but i-- aaaaagh!

knight:  oooh!

knight:  oh, no! [roar]

maynard:  it's the legendary black beast of aaauuugh!

arthur:  run away!

all:  run away!  run away! [roar]

narrator:  as the horrendous black beast lunged forward, escape for arthur and his knights seemed hopeless.  when, suddenly, the animator suffered a fatal heart attack.  [ulk]  the cartoon peril was no more.  the quest for the holy grail could continue.


<scene 35>


arthur:  there it is!  the bridge of death!

robin:  oh, great.

knight:  look!

arthur:  there's the old man from scene 24!

bedemir:  what is he doing here?

arthur:  he is the keeper of the bridge of death.  he asks each traveller five questions--

knight:  three questions.

arthur:  three questions.  he who answers the five questions--

knight:  three questions.

arthur:  three questions may cross in safety.

robin:  what if you get a question wrong?

arthur:  then you are cast into the gorge of eternal peril.

robin:  oh, i won't go.

knight:  who's going to answer the questions?

arthur:  sir robin!

robin:  yes?

arthur:  brave sir robin, you go.

robin:  hey!  i've got a great idea.  why doesn't launcelot go?

launcelot:  yes, let me go, my liege.  i will take him single-handed.

i shall make a feint to the north-east--

arthur:  no, no, hang on, hang on, hang on!  just answer the five questions--

knight:  three questions.

arthur:  three questions as best you can.  and we shall watch... and pray.

launcelot:  i understand, my liege.

arthur:  good luck, brave sir launcelot.  god be with you.

keeper:  stop!  who would cross the bridge of death must answer me these questions three, 'ere the other side he see.

launcelot:  ask me the questions, bridge-keeper.  i'm not afraid.

keeper:  what is your name?

launcelot:  my name is sir launcelot of camelot.

keeper:  what is your quest?

launcelot:  to seek the holy grail.

keeper:  what is your favorite color?

launcelot:  blue.

keeper:  right.  off you go.

launcelot:  oh, thank you.  thank you very much.

robin:  that's easy!

keeper:  stop!  who approaches the bridge of death must answer me these questions three, 'ere the other side he see.

robin:  ask me the questions, bridge-keeper.  i'm not afraid.

keeper:  what is your name?

robin:  sir robin of camelot.

keeper:  what is your quest?

robin:  to seek the holy grail.

keeper:  what is the capital of assyria?

robin:  i don't know that!  auuuuuuuugh!

keeper:  stop!  what is your name?

galahad:  sir galahad of camelot.

keeper:  what is your quest?

galahad:  i seek the holy grail.

keeper:  what is your favorite color?

galahad:  blue.  no yel--  auuuuuuuugh!

keeper:  heh heh.  stop!  what is your name?

arthur:  it is arthur, king of the britons.

keeper:  what is your quest?

arthur:  to seek the holy grail.

keeper:  what is the air-speed velocity of an unladen swallow?

arthur:  what do you mean?  an african or european swallow?

keeper:  what?  i don't know that!  auuuuuuuugh!

bedemir:  how do know so much about swallows?

arthur:  well, you have to know these things when you're a king you know.


<scene 36>


arthur:  launcelot!  launcelot!  launcelot!

bedemir:  launcelot!  launcelot!

arthur:  launcelot!  launcelot!

bedemir:  launcelot!  launcelot! [angels singing]

arthur:  the castle aggh.  our quest is at an end!  god be praised! almighty god, we thank thee that thou hast [something] safe [something] the most- [twong  baaaa] jesus christ!

guard:  'allo, daffy english kaniggets and monsieur arthur-king, who is afraid of a duck, you know!  so, we french fellows out-wit you a second time!

arthur:  how dare you profane this place with your presence!?  i command you, in the name of the knights of camelot, to open the doors of this sacred castle, to which god himself has guided us!

guard:  how you english say, i one more time-a unclog my nose in your direction, sons of a window-dresser!  so, you think you could out-clever us french folk with your silly knees-bent running about advancing behavior! i wave my private parts at your aunties, you heaving lot of second-hand electric donkey bottom biters.

arthur:  in the name of the lord, we demand entrance to this sacred castle!

guard:  no chance, english bedwetting types.  i burst my pimples at you and call your daughter an unrequested silly thing.  you tiny-brained wipers of other people's bottoms!

arthur:  if you do not open this door, we shall take this castle by force! [splat] in the name of god and the glory of our-- [splat] right!  that settles it!

guard:  yes, this time and try any more or we fire arrows at the tops of your heads and make castanets out of your testicles already!  ha ha!

arthur:  walk away.  just ignore them.

guard:  no, remain you illegitimate faced buggerfuls!  and, if you think you got nasty taunting this time, you ain't heard nothing yet!  daffy english kaniggets!  thpppt!

arthur:  we shall attack at once!

bedemir:  yes, my liege!

arthur:  stand by for attack!